# Module 8: Implementing Azure Cloud Services
# Lab: Implementing Azure Cloud Services
  
### Scenario
  
 You want to evaluate the capabilities of Azure Cloud Services to host A. Datum web applications. Your development team has provided a simple cloud service project that you can use to test its functionality in Azure. You want to show how staging and production slots can be used to simplify the deployment of new versions of the cloud service. You also want to determine whether you can monitor the service to get clear information on resource usage.


### Objectives
  
 At the end of this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure and deploy a cloud service to Azure.

- Deploy a cloud service for staging and enable Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) access.

- Configure metrics and alerts to monitor the cloud service state.


### Lab Setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machine: **20533D-MIA-CL1**

User name: **Student**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Deploying a cloud service
  
### Scenario
  
 You have been asked to test the deployment of a sample cloud service to Azure.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an Azure SQL Server Database for an Azure Cloud Service

2. Create an Azure Storage account for an Azure Cloud Service

3. Configure the service definition file

4. Deploy an Azure Cloud Service



#### Task 1. Create an Azure SQL Server Database for an Azure Cloud Service
  
1. Sign in to the MIA-CL1 lab virtual machine as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**

2. Start Microsoft Edge, browse to the Azure portal, and sign in with an account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

3. From the Azure portal, identify the region in which you can provision an Azure VM of the size **Standard_A1_v2**. This will be the region you will use to provision all resources in this lab.

4. Create a new Azure SQL Database with the following settings:

- Database name: **CloudServiceProdDB**

- Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription

- Resource group: a new resource group named **20533D0801-LabRG**

- Select source: **Blank database**

- Server: create a new server with the following settings:

  - Server name: any valid, unique name

  - Server admin login: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

  - Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**

  - Location: the Azure region you identified in the step 3 of this task

  - Allow azure services to access server: make sure that the checkbox is enabled

- Want to use SQL elastic pool?: **Not now**

- Pricing tier: **Basic**

- Collation: leave at the default value

- Pin to dashboard: leave the checkbox clear


#### Task 2. Create an Azure Storage account for an Azure Cloud Service

1. From the Azure portal, create a new storage account with the following settings: 

- Name: any unique name consisting of between 3 and 24 lower case letters or digits

- Deployment model: **Resource manager**

- Account kind: **Storage (general purpose v1)**

- Performance: **Standard**

- Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

- Secure transfer required: **Disabled**

- Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription where you created the SQL database in the previous task

- Resource group: ensure that the **Use existing** option is selected and click **20533D0801-LabRG** in the drop-down list

- Location: the same location you specified in the previous task

- Virtual networks (Preview): **Disabled**

- Pin to dashboard: leave the checkbox unchecked


#### Task 3: Configure the service definition file
  
1. Launch Visual Studio, and then open the **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** file located in E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package folder.

2. In the file, set the **Instance count** attribute for the **AdatumAdsWeb** and **AdatumAdsWorker** roles to **2**.

3. Switch to the Azure portal, navigate to the blade of the storage account you created earlier in this exercise and, from its **Access keys** blade, copy the value of the **CONNECTION STRING** entry of the **Primary** key.

4. Back in the **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** file in the Visual Studio interface, replace all values of the **StorageConnectionString** attribute with the value you copied from the Azure portal.

5. In the **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** file in the Visual Studio interface, replace all values of the **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Plugins.Diagnostics.ConnectionString** attribute with the value you copied from the Azure portal.

6. Switch to the Azure portal, navigate to the blade of the Azure SQL database you created earlier in this exercise, and, from its blade, copy the value of the **ADO.NET** database connection string entry.

7. In the **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** file in the Visual Studio interface, replace the value of the **AdatumAdsDbConnectionString** attribute with the value you copied from the Azure portal.

8. In the database connection string you just pasted, replace **{your_username}** with **Student**.

9. In the database connection string you just pasted, replace **{your_password}** with **Pa55w.rd**.

10. Save **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**.



#### Task 4: Deploy the Azure Cloud Service
  
1. From the Azure portal, create a new Azure Cloud Service with the following settings:

- DNS name: any valid, unique name

- Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription you have been using for this lab

- Resource group: ensure that the **Use existing** option is selected and click **20533D0801-LabRG** in the drop-down list

- Location: the same location you have been using in this lab

2. As part of the creation of the cloud service, set the production deployment name to **AdatumAdsProd**.

3. Upload the package **AdatumAds.cspkg** from E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package.

4. Upload the configuration file **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** from E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package.

5. Wait for the deployment to complete.

> **Note:** The deployment might take a few minutes. 

> **Result**: At the end of this exercise, you should have created a storage account and a SQL database, edited the service configuration file, and deployed the cloud service to the production slot.


## Exercise 2: Configuring deployment slots and RDP
  
### Scenario
  
 The development team has provided another version of the Azure Cloud Service you deployed to Azure. You want to determine how you can use deployment slots to stage and deploy new versions of cloud services. You will use the same configuration you used for the production service. You also want to test Remote Desktop connectivity to individual instances of cloud service roles.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Perform a staged deployment of an Azure Cloud Service

2. Configure RDP access

3. Test connectivity



#### Task 1: Perform a staged deployment of an Azure Cloud Service
  
1. From the Azure portal, add a new staging deployment to the newly created Azure Cloud Service by uploading package and configuration files.

2. Set the staging deployment name to **AdatumAdsStage**.

3. Upload the package **AdatumAdsCloudService.cspkg** from E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Staging\\Package.

4. Upload the configuration file **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg** from E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package.

5. Wait for the deployment to complete

> **Note:** Wait for the deployment to complete. This might take a few minutes. You can monitor the progress in the **Roles and instances** section of the staging blade.


#### Task 2: Configure RDP access

1. On MIA-CLI, start **Windows PowerShell** as Administrator**

2. From the Windows PowerShell session, use the **Add-AzureAccount** cmdlet to sign in with an account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

3. If there are multiple subscriptions associated with your account, use the **Select-AzureSubscription** cmdlet to select the target subscription.

4. Next, execute the following script (make sure to replace `cloud-service-name` with the name of the cloud service you deployed earlier in this lab):

```
  $serviceName = 'cloud-service-name'

  $userName = 'Student'

  $securePassword = 'Pa55w.rd1234' | ConvertTo-SecureString -AsPlainText -Force

  $expirationDate = $(Get-Date).AddDays(31)

  $credential = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential $userName,$securePassword

  Set-AzureServiceRemoteDesktopExtension -ServiceName $serviceName -Credential $credential -Expiration $expirationDate -Slot Production

  Set-AzureServiceRemoteDesktopExtension -ServiceName $serviceName -Credential $credential -Expiration $expirationDate -Slot Staging
```


#### Task 3: Test connectivity
  
1. From the Azure portal, identify the URL of the production deployment of the Azure Cloud Service you deployed in the previous exercise.

2. Use Microsoft Edge to navigate to the URL representing the production deployment of the Azure Cloud Service.

3. Leave the Microsoft Edge window open. You will use it later in this exercise.

4. From the Azure portal, identify the URL of the staging deployment of the Azure Cloud Service you deployed in the previous exercise.

5. Navigate to the URL representing the staging deployment of the Azure Cloud Service by using Microsoft Edge.

6. Close the Microsoft Edge tab showing the staging deployment.

7. Connect via Remote Desktop to the **AdatumAdsWeb_IN_0** instance of the production deployment.

8. Close the remote desktop connection.


> **Result**: At the end of this exercise you have performed a staging deployment of an Azure Cloud Service, enable RDP access to an Azure Cloud Service, and connected to cloud service instances via HTTP and via RDP.


## Exercise 3: Monitoring cloud services
  
### Scenario
  
 You have been asked to evaluate the network traffic used by the new version of the Azure Cloud Service that you deployed to the production environment. To accomplish this, you will start collecting network-related monitoring metrics and configure an alert.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Add metrics to the Azure Cloud Service monitoring 

2. Create an alert for a cloud service

3. Monitor a cloud service

4. Remove the lab environment


#### Task 1: Add metrics to the Azure Cloud Service monitoring
  
1. In the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure portal, navigate to the blade of the Production slot of the cloud service.

2. From the production slot of the cloud service, navigate to its **Metrics** blade.

3. On the Metrics blade, ensure that **AdatumAdsWeb** appears in the **Role** drop down list, and scroll down to the **Network in and out** chart.


#### Task 2: Create an alert
  
1. In the Azure portal, add an alert to the Production slot of the cloud service with the following settings:

- Name: **Network In Alert**

- Description: **Test network in alert**

- Alert on: **Metrics**

- Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab

- Resource group: **20533D0801-LabRG**

- Resource: leave at its default value

- Metric: **Network In**

- Condition: **greater than**
	
- Threshold: **1**

- Period: **Over the last 5 minutes**

- Email owners, contributors, and readers: enable the checkbox

- Additional administrator email(s): type the email address of the Service Administrator account of your Azure subscription

- Webhook: leave the textbox clear

2. Generate network traffic to the production deployment by refreshing the production deployment page displayed in Microsoft Edge, which you opened earlier in this exercise.

> **Note:** It might take over 5 minutes before the alert is triggered.


#### Task 3: Monitor an active cloud service
  
1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the **Monitor** blade, locate the **Network In Alert** entry, and identify the value in the **LAST ACTIVE** column.

2. Open another Microsoft Edge tab, browse to **www.hotmail.com**, and sign in with the username and password of the Microsoft Account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 

3. In the list of emails, click **Microsoft Azure Alerts**.

4. Inspect the details of the alert.

5. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 4: Remove the lab environment
  
1. On MIA-CL1, close all open windows without saving any files.

2. Start **Windows PowerShell** as Administrator and, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run **Remove-20533DEnvironment**.

3. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

4. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

5. If prompted, specify the current lab number.

6. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

7. Start Microsoft Edge, browse to the Azure portal, and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

8. In the Azure portal, reset the dashboard to the default state. 

9. Close all open windows.

> **Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have configured monitoring for an Azure Cloud Service with a new metric and an alert.



**Question** 
In Exercise 2, you enabled RDP access and used the RDP client to connect to an instance of a web role. Why would administrators want to connect to cloud service role instances via RDP?

**Question** 
You want to ensure you can identify the volume of network traffic your Azure Cloud Service has received over the last hour. Should you configure a monitoring metric or an alert?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
