# Module 7: Implementing containers in Azure
# Lab A: Implementing containers on Azure VMs
  
### Scenario
  A. Datum Corporation plans to implement some of its applications as Docker containers on Azure VMs. To optimize this implementation, you intend to combine multiple containers by using Docker Compose. A. Datum would also like to deploy its own private Docker registry in Azure to store containerized images. Your task is to test the functionality of tools that facilitate deployment of Docker hosts and Docker containers. You also need to evaluate Azure Container Registry.

### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Implement Docker hosts on Azure VMs

- Deploy containers to Azure VMs

- Deploy multicontainer applications with Docker Compose to Azure VMs

- Implement Azure Container Registry


### Lab Setup
  
 Estimated Time: 30 minutes

 Virtual Machine: **20533D-MIA-CL1**

 User Name: **Student**

 Password: **Pa55w.rd**

 Before starting this lab, ensure that you have performed the "Preparing the Environment" demonstration tasks at the beginning of the first lesson in this module, and that the setup script has completed.


## Exercise 1: Implementing Docker hosts on Azure VMs
  
### Scenario
  To test the planned deployment, you must identify the methods that would allow you to deploy Docker hosts to Azure VMs. You decide to evaluate the Docker Toolbox for Windows.    

Note: The Microsoft Azure portal is continually improved, and the user interface might have been updated since this lab was written. Your instructor will make you aware of any differences between the steps described in the lab and the current Azure portal user interface.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Install Docker Toolbox for Windows

2. Use Docker Machine to create hosts in Azure Deploy Docker Toolbox for Windows


#### Task 1: Install Docker Toolbox for Windows
  
1. Ensure that you are signed in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and that the **Add-20533DEnvironment** script successfully completed. The script creates an Azure VM of the size that supports nested virtualization. You will use it to install Docker Toolbox for Windows.

2. Start Microsoft Edge and browse to the Azure portal. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 

3. From the Azure portal, establish a Remote Desktop session to the **20533D0701-vm0** virtual machine. Authenticate as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd1234**. 

4. In the Remote Desktop session to **20533D0701-vm0**, turn off **IE Enhanced Security Configuration**. 

5. In the Remote Desktop session , start Internet Explorer and navigate to https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/#download-docker-for-windows

6. From the **Install Docker for Windows** page, run **Docker for Windows Installer.exe**.

7. Once the installation completed, click **Close and log out**.


#### Task 2: 
  
1. From the Azure portal, re-establish a Remote Desktop session to the **20533D0701-vm0** virtual machine. Authenticate as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd1234**.

2. In the Remote Desktop session to **20533D0701-vm0**, if prompted in Docker for Windows dialog box whether to enable Hyper-V, click **Cancel**.

3. In the Remote Desktop session, start Internet Explorer and browse to the Azure portal. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 

4. In the Azure portal, start **Bash (Linux)** session in **Cloud Shell**.

5. From the **Cloud shell** pane, identify the Id of your Azure subscription. Copy its value to Clipboard. 

6. In the **Cloud shell**, enumerate the Skus of the images of Canonical Ubuntu Server available in the Azure region you selected when running **Add-20533DEnvironment** at the beginning of this module.

7. Verify that **16.04.0-LTS** is available. If that is not the case, replace **16.04.0-LTS** with one of avaialble SKUs in step 11.

8. Close **Cloud Shell**.

9. In the Remote Desktop session, start **Command Prompt** as Administrator.

10. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, change the current directory to the location of the user profile. 
  
11. From the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, create a new Azure VM named **"20533d0702-vm0"** and configured as Docker host by running **docker-machine** with the following settings:

  - --azure-ssh-user: **student**

  - --azure-subscription-id: the value of the Subscription Id you copied into Clipboard

  - --azure-open-port **80**

  - --azure-image: **"Canonical:UbuntuServer:16.04.0-LTS:latest"**

  - --azure-location: the name of the Azure region you selected when running **Add-20533DEnvironment** at the beginning of this module

  - --azure-resource-group: **"20533D0702-LabRG"**

  - --azure-availability-set: **"20533D0702-avset"**

  - --azure-static-public-ip
  
  - --azure-size: an available VM size

12. When prompted, authenticate to your Azure subscription. 

13. Close the Internet Explorer window.

14. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, monitor the progress of provisioning the Azure VM.

15. Wait for the Azure VM to be provisioned. Next, use the **docker-machine** command to list the Docker host on the newly provisioned Azure VM. 

16. Use the **docker-machine** command with the **ip** switch to obtain the IP address of the Docker host Azure VM

17. Verify connectivity to the target Docker Azure VM, by running the **docker** command with the following parameters from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window: 

  - --tlsverify 

  - --tlscacert: **C:\\Users\\Student\\.docker\\machine\\certs\\ca.pem**

  - --tlscert: **C:\\Users\Student\\.docker\\machine\\certs\\cert.pem**

  - --tlskey: **C:\\Users\\Student\\.docker\\machine\\certs\\key.pem**

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully installed Docker Toolbox for Windows and created a Docker host in an Azure VM.


## Exercise 2: Deploying containers to Azure VMs
  
### Scenario
  
 After deploying the Docker host VM, you intend to use Docker Machine, which the Docker Toolbox includes, to verify that the Docker host is operational. To accomplish this, you want to run a sample containerized nginx web server, available from Docker Hub.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure docker-machine environment.

2. Run a container in a Docker host running on an Azure VM.

#### Task 1: Configure docker-machine environment.
  
1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, enumerate the **docker-machine** environment representing the connection to the **20533d0702-vm0** Docker host.

2. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, assign the values to the `DOCKER_CERT_PATH`, `DOCKER_HOST`, `DOCKER_MACHINE_NAME`, and `DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY` environment variables such that they represent the connection parameters to the **20533d0702-vm0** Docker host.


#### Task 2: Run a container in a Docker host running on an Azure VM
  
1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, use the **docker** command to start **nginx** container from the Docker Hub, making it available on TCP port 80. 

2. Monitor the progress of the container deployment. Verify the successful outcome, by running the **docker** command with the **ps** switch from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window. 

3. Use the **docker-machine** command with the **ip** switch to obtain the IP address of the Docker host Azure VM

4. Start Internet Explorer and browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the **Welcome to nginx!** page


> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully run a sample containerized web server nginx on the Docker host Azure VM.


## Exercise 3: Deploying multicontainer applications with Docker Compose to Azure VMs
  
### Scenario
  
 You intend to implement some A. Datum applications by using multiple containers. To accomplish this, you will test the deployment of multicontainer images by using Docker Compose.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a compose file

2. Deploy the containers with docker-compose to an Azure VM

#### Task 1: Create a compose file

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, verify that Docker Compose is installed on the target Docker Azure VM by running the **docker-compose** command with the **--version** parameter.

2. From the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, in the current directory, create a new file named docker-compose.yml with the following content (you can find the file in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab07\\Solution** folder):

```
  version: "3"
  services:
    wordpress:
      image: wordpress
      links:
        - db:mysql
      ports:
        - 8080:80
    db:
       image: mariadb
       environment:
         MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: Pa55w.rd
```

#### Task 2: Deploy the containers with docker-compose to an Azure VM
  
1. In the Remote Desktop Session to 20533D0701-vm0, from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, deploy containers defined in the **docker-compose.yml** file to the Docker host in the Azure VM **20533d0702-vm0**.

2. Monitor the progress of the container deployment. Use the **docker** command with the **ps** switch to verify the successful outcome.


#### Task 3: Connect to a multi-container application running on an Azure VM
  
1. In the Remote Desktop Session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the Azure portal, navigate to the **20533D0702-vm0-firewall** blade. 

2. From the **20533D0702-vm0-firewall** blade, add an inbound security rule with the following settings: 

  - Source: **Any**

  - Source port ranges: *

  - Destination: **Any**

  - Destination port ranges: **8080**

  - Protocol: **TCP**

  - Action: **Allow**

  - Priority: **1100**

  - Name: **Port8080-TcpAllowAny**

3. Wait for the operation to complete. Next, start Internet Explorer and browse to the port 8080 on the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the **Wordpress Installation** page

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully implemented a multi-container application by using Docker Compose.


## Exercise 4: Implementing Azure Container Registry
  
### Scenario
  
 Now that you have successfully implemented a Docker host in an Azure VM and deployed containerized images from Docker Hub, you want to test the setup and image deployment by using Container Registry. In your tests, you will use a sample image available from Docker Hub. You will start by creating a container registry. Next, you will download the sample image to your lab computer and upload it to the newly created private registry. Finally, you will deploy the image from the private registry to the Docker host in Azure VM.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an Azure Container Registry

2. Identify Azure Container Registry authentication settings.

3. Push an image to Azure Container Registry.

4. Download and deploy images from the Azure Container Registry

5. Remove the lab environment

#### Task 1: Create an Azure Container Registry

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the Azure portal in the Internet Explorer window, create a new **Azure Container Registry** with the following settings:

  - Registry name: a unique name consisting of between 5 and 50 alphanumeric characters

  - Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab

  - Resource group: click **Create new** and, in the text box below, type **20533D0703-LabRG**

  - Location : **East US**

  - Admin user: **Enable** (this allows you to use the registry name as username and admin user access key as password to docker login to the registry)

  - SKU : **Basic**

2. Wait for the operation to complete.


#### Task 2: Identify Azure Container Registry authentication settings.
  
1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the Azure portal in the Internet Explorer window, navigate to the blade of the Azure container registry you created in the previous task.

2. On the container registry blade, copy the container registry password to Clipboard. 

3. Note the values of the **Username** and the **Login server** entries. The username should match the registry name and the login server name should consist of the registry name followed by the **.azurecr.io** suffix.


#### Task 3: Push an image to Azure Container Registry.
  
1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, log in to the Azure Container registry you created in the first task by running the **docker login** command, providing the name of the login-server you identified in the previous task as well as the following parameters:

  - --username: the value of **Username** you identified in the previous task

  - --password: the value of **password** you copied to Clipboard in the previous task

2. Ensure that you receive the **Login succeeded** message. Next, pull the **microsoft/aci-helloworld** image from Docker Hub by running the **docker pull** command from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window. 

3. Wait for the image to be downloaded to the Docker Azure VM. Next, tag the image with the Azure Container registry name by running from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window the **docker tag** command with the **_login-server_/aci-helloworld:v1** parameter, replacing the **_login-server_** entry with the value you identified in the previous task.

4. Push the tagged image to the Azure Container registry by running from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window the **docker push** command with the **_login-server_/aci-helloworld:v1** parameter, replacing the **_login-server_** entry with the value you identified in the previous task.

5. Wait for the image to be pushed to the registry. Next, in the Azure portal, from the container registry blade, verify that the Azure Container registry contains the **aci-helloworld** repository


#### Task 4: Download and deploy images from the Azure Container Registry

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, pull the newly tagged image from the Azure Container registry, by running from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window the **docker pull** command with the **_login-server_/aci-helloworld:v1** parameter, replacing the **_login-server_** entry with the value you identified earlier in this exercise.

2. Note that, in this case, the image does not need to be downloaded, since it is already present on the target Docker Azure VM. 

3. Deploy the image downloaded from the Azure Container registry, by running from the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window the **docker run** command with the **_login-server_/aci-helloworld:v1** parameter, replacing the **_login-server_** entry with the value you identified earlier in this exercise. Deploy the web service running in the container such that it is accessible via port 8081. 

4. Run the **docker ps** command to verify that the image has been successfully deployed.

5. Note that the output includes the tagged image. 

6. Close the Remote Desktop Session to 20533D0701-vm0.


#### Task 5: Remove the lab environment

1. On MIA-CL1, close all open windows without saving any files.

2. Start **Windows PowerShell** as Administrator and, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run **Remove-20533DEnvironment**.

3. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

4. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

5. If prompted, specify the current lab number.

6. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

7. Start Microsoft Edge, browse to the Azure portal, and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

8. In the Azure portal, reset the dashboard to the default state. 

9. Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully tested image deployment by using Azure Container Registry.


**Question** 

Which method would you use when deploying Docker hosts on Azure VMs?

**Question** 

What authentication and authorization method do you intend to use when implementing Azure Container Registry?


# Lab B: Implementing Azure Container Service (ACS)
  
### Scenario
  A. Datum is considering implementing containers on a larger scale by leveraging the capabilities that ACS offers. You intend to choose one of the three orchestrators available and test its functionality. You want to test load balancing and scaling of a sample containerized application. 

### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Create an ACS cluster.

- Manage the ACS cluster.


### Lab Setup
  
 Estimated Time: 30 minutes

 Virtual Machine: **20533D-MIA-CL1**

 User Name: **Student**

 Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Creating an ACS cluster
  
### Scenario
  You must start by identifying the prerequisites for deploying an ACS cluster. You plan to install the cluster by using the Azure portal.     

Note: The Microsoft Azure portal is continually improved, and the user interface might have been updated since this lab was written. Your instructor will make you aware of any differences between the steps described in the lab and the current Azure portal user interface.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an ACS Kubernetes cluster

2. Connect to the ACS Kubernetes cluster.

3. Remove the lab environment.


#### Task 1: Create an ACS Kubernetes cluster

1. Ensure that you are signed in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd** and that the **Remove-20533DEnvironment** script successfully completed. In the Azure portal, in the Microsoft Edge window, start the Bash prompt in **Cloud Shell**. 

2. From the Bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, create a new resource group named **20533D0704-LabRG** in the Azure region where you want to deploy the ACS Kubernetes cluster. 

3. From the Bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, use the **az acs create** command with the following parameters to create a new Kubernetes cluster:

  - --orchestrator-type: **kubernetes** 

  - --resource-group: **20533D0704-LabRG** 

  - --name: **20533D0704-k8scluster**

  - --generate-ssh-keys

4. Wait for the deployment to complete.


#### Task 2: Connect to the ACS Kubernetes cluster.
  
1. Download and configure the credentials to access the ACS Kubernetes cluster, by running the **az acs kubernetes get-credential** command with the following parameters from the Bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane:

  - --resource-group: **20533D0704-LabRG** 

  - --name **20533D0704-k8scluster** 

2. Verify connectivity to the ACS Kubernetes cluster, by running the **kubectl get nodes** command from the Bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane

3. Review the output and verify that the agent nodes are reporting the **Ready** status. 


> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully deployed a new ACS cluster with the orchestrator of your choice. 


## Exercise 2: Managing an ACS cluster
  
### Scenario
  
 With the new ACS cluster running, you must connect to it, deploy a sample containerized application in it, and validate its availability and resiliency by testing clustering features such as scaling and load balancing.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Deploy a containerized application to the ACS Kubernetes cluster 

2. Manage deployment of a containerized application on the ACS Kubernetes cluster 


#### Task 1: Deploy a containerized application to the ACS Kubernetes cluster 
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Cloud shell pane, create a deployment named **nginx-20533d0704** from the Docker Hub by running the **kubectl run** command with the following parameters:

  - --image: **nginx**

  - --replicas: **1**

  - --port: **80**

2. Verify that a Kubernetes pod has been created by running **kubectl get pods** command from the bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane.

3. Identify the state of the deployment by running **kubectl get deployment** command from the bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane.

4. Make the deployment **nginx-20533d0704** available from Internet by running **kubectl expose** command from the bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane with the following parameters:

  - --port: **80** 

  - --type: **LoadBalancer**

5. Identify whether the public IP address has been provisioned by running **kubectl get services** command from the bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane.

6. Repeat step 5 until the value in the **EXTERNAL-IP** column for nginx-20533d0704 changes from **<<pending>pending>** to a public IP address. Note the public IP address in the **EXTERNAL-IP** column for nginx-20533d0704. 

7. Start Microsoft Edge and browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the **Welcome to nginx!** 


#### Task 2: Manage deployment of a containerized application on the ACS Kubernetes cluster 
  
1. Scale the deployment **nginx-20533d0704** by running **kubectl scale** command from the bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane with the --replicas parameter set to **2**.

2. Verify the outcome of scaling the deployment by running **kubectl get pods** command from the bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane.

3. In the output of the command you ran in the previous step, verify that the number of pods increased to 2.

4. Delete the **nginx-20533d0704** deployment by running **kubectl delete** command from the bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane.

5. Verify that the command you ran in the previous step completed successfully by running **kubectl get deployment** command from the bash prompt in the Cloud shell pane.


#### Task 3: Remove the lab environment

1. On MIA-CL1, close all open windows without saving any files.

2. Start **Windows PowerShell** as Administrator and, from the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell** window, run **Remove-20533DEnvironment**.

3. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

4. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

5. If prompted, specify the current lab number.

6. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

7. Start Microsoft Edge, browse to the Azure portal, and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

8. In the Azure portal, reset the dashboard to the default state. 

9. Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully deployed a containerized workload to the new ACS cluster and validated its availability.


**Question** 

What deployment methodology would you choose when deploying ACS clusters?


**Question** 

What are the primary advantages of using ACS for deploying container clusters?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
