# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Implementing and managing Azure networking
# Lab A: Using a deployment template and Azure PowerShell to implement Azure virtual networks
  
## Exercise 1: Creating an Azure virtual network by using a deployment template
  
#### Task 1: Access the template on GitHub
  
1. Ensure that you are signed in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On the desktop, on the taskbar, click the **Internet Explorer** icon.

3. In the Microsoft Internet Explorer address bar, type the following address, and then press **Enter**: http://aka.ms/Mt32e4.


#### Task 2: Create a new template-based deployment by using the Azure portal
  
1. In Internet Explorer, under Virtual Network with two Subnets, click **Deploy to Azure**.

2. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.

3. In the Azure portal, in the **Create a Virtual Network with two Subnets** blade, click **Edit template**.

4. Review the structure of the JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file. Examine the placeholders for values that can be edited during the deployment. This template contains the following parameters: _vnetName_,  _vnetAddressPrefix_, _subnet1Name_, _subnet1Prefix_, _subnet2Name_, _subnet2Prefix_.

5. Review the content of the **Resources** section to identify type of the resource, its name, and properties.

6. Click **Discard** to close the Edit Template blade.

> **Note:** If the template fails to load into the Azure portal, navigate to the following URL:
        [http://aka.ms/Fpqovq](http://aka.ms/Fpqovq) . Then, select and copy all the text. Paste the copied text into the **Edit template** blade, then perform steps 4 and 5 to review the template and close the Edit Template blade without making any changes.


#### Task 3: Perform the deployment from the Azure portal
  
1. In the **Create a Virtual Network with two Subnets** blade, specify the following settings and then click **Purchase**.

  - Subscription: select the name of your subscription in the drop down list

  - Resource group: ensure that **Create new** option is selected and type **20533C0201-LabRG** in the text box below

  - Location: in the drop-down list, select the primary Azure region provided by the instructor

  - Vnet Name: **HQ**

  - Vnet Address Prefix: **10.0.0.0/16**

  - Subnet1Prefix: **10.0.0.0/24**

  - Subnet1Name: **Subnet1**

  - Subnet2Prefix: **10.0.1.0/24**

  - Subnet2Name: **Subnet2**

  - I agree to the terms and conditions stated above: enabled

2. Verify that provisioning of the new virtual network with name **HQ** completed successfully.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created virtual networks for A. Datum HQ.


## Exercise 2: Creating a virtual network by using PowerShell
  
#### Task 1: Create a virtual network by using PowerShell
  
1. From the taskbar, start Windows PowerShell as Administrator.

2. Sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription by typing the following command, and then pressing Enter:

  ```
  Login-AzureRMAccount
  ```

3. If you have multiple subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account, to select the subscription in which you are going to create a virtual network, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each (replace '_SubscriptionId_' with the actual SubscriptionId property of your subscription):

  ```
  Get-AzureRmSubscription
  Set-AzureRmContext -SubscriptionId 'SubscriptionId'
  ```

4. To create a new resource group, type the following command, and then press Enter (replace '_Location_' with the name of the primary Azure region provided by the instructor and enclose the name of the region in single quotes if it contains a space):

  ```
  $rg = New-AzureRMResourceGroup -Name '20533C0202-LabRG' -Location 'Name of an Azure region'
  ```

5. To create a new virtual network named **AdatumTestVnet** with the address space **10.0.0.0/16** and store a reference to it in the $vnet variable, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $vnet = New-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -ResourceGroupName '20533C0202-LabRG' -Name 'AdatumTestVnet' -AddressPrefix '10.0.0.0/16' -Location $rg.Location
  ```

6. To add a subnet to the new virtual network, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  Add-AzureRmVirtualNetworkSubnetConfig -Name 'FrontEnd' -VirtualNetwork $vnet -AddressPrefix '10.0.0.0/24'
  ```

7. To update the configuration in the virtual network, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-AzureRmVirtualNetwork -VirtualNetwork $vnet
  ```

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a test virtual networks for A. Datum by using Azure PowerShell. 


## Exercise 3: Configuring virtual networks
  
#### Task 1: Create a classic virtual network gateway
  
1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **More services**. 

2. In the list of services, click **Virtual networks (classic)**

3. On the **Virtual networks (classic)** blade, click **ADATUM-BRANCH-VNET**.

4. On the **ADATUM-BRANCH-VNET** blade, on the **VPN connections** tile, click the **Click here to create a gateway** link. 

5. On the **Gateway configuration** blade, click **Subnet**. 

6. On the **Add subnet** blade, in the **Address range (CIDR block)** text box, type **192.168.254.224/27** and click **OK**.

7. On the **Gateway configuration** blade, ensure that **Size** is set to **Default** and that **Routing Type** is set to **Dynamic**.

8. Click **OK** to confirm creation of a VPN gateway.

> **Note:** The creation of the VPN gateway could take 30 - 35 minutes to complete.


#### Task 2: Deploy an Azure virtual machine by using the Resource Manager deployment model
  
1. Right-click Windows PowerShell shortcut in the taskbar and click **Run ISE as Administrator**.

2. In the Windows PowerShell ISE window, click **File**, then **Open**. In the **Open** dialog box, browse to the D:\\Labfiles\\Lab02\\Starter folder, click **New-AzureRm20533C02VM.ps1** and click **Open**.

3. In the Windows PowerShell ISE window, click **Debug** and then click **Run/Continue**.

4. When prompted to sign in (twice), type in the user name and the password which is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator in your Azure subscription.

5. If you have multiple subscription, when prompted, type in the number corresponding to the subscription to which you deployed the virtual network in the first exercise of this lab and press **Enter**.

> **Note:** The script takes about 10 minutes to complete.
>  The script deploys a Azure VM named ARMSrv2 onto the first subnet of the HQ virtual network you provisioned earlier in this lab by using the Azure Resource Manager deployment model

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a virtual network gateway on the existing classic virtual network and deployed a virtual machine to the HQ virtual network by using Azure Resource Manager deployment model.



# Lab B: Configuring connectivity between classic and Azure Resource Manager virtual networks
  
## Exercise 1: Using a Windows PowerShell script to connect a classic VNet and an Azure Resource Manager VNet
  
#### Task 1: Configure Resource Manager virtual network
  
1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, on the **ADATUM-BRANCH-VNET** blade, on the **VPN connections** tile, verify that the **Gateway** entry has an IP address assigned to it. If this is not the case, wait until IP address does appear. 

2. On MIA-CL1, in the Windows PowerShell ISE window, click **File**, then **Open**. In the **Open** dialog box, browse to the D:\\Labfiles\\Lab02\\Starter folder, click **New-AzureRm20533C02Gateway.ps1** and click **Open**.

3. In the Windows PowerShell ISE, click **Debug** and then click **Run/Continue**.

4. When prompted to sign in (twice), type in the user name and the password which is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.

5. Occasionally monitor the execution status.

> **Note:** Wait for the script to complete. This might take between 20 to 25 minutes. 


#### Task 2: Configure classic virtual network
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the Hub menu, click **More services** and, in the list of services, click **Virtual networks**

2. On the Virtual networks blade, click **HQ**.

3. On the HQ blade, in the **Connected devices** section, click **gatewayARM**. On the gatewayARM blade, take note of the value of the **Public IP address** entry. 

4. Start File Explorer and browse to D:\\Configfiles\\Lab02 folder.

5. Right-click on the **NetworkConfig.txt** file and click **Open with** in the menu.

6. In the next cascading menu, click **Notepad** in the list of programs.

7. In Notepad, in the **LocalNetworkSite** section, modify the value of **&lt;VPNGatewayAddress&gt;** element (which is at this point set to **1.1.1.1**) by replacing **1.1.1.1** with the value of the IP address that you noted in step 3

8. Replace **Location1** in the **&lt;VirtualNetworkSite name="ADATUM-BRANCH-VNET" Location="Location1"&gt;** element with the name of the Azure region in which you created the **ADATUM-BRANCH-VNET** virtual network.

9. Save the modified file as **NetworkConfig.xml** and then close the file.

10. Switch to the Windows PowerShell window. 

11. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, sign into your Azure subscription by running:

  ```
  Add-AzureAccount
  ```

12. If you have multiple subscriptions, to select the target subscription, type the following commands, and press Enter after each (replace '_SubscriptionId_' with the value of the SubscriptionId property of your subscription):

  ```
  Get-AzureSubscription
  Set-AzureSubscription -SubscriptionId 'SubscriptionId'
  ```

13. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-AzureVNetConfig -ConfigurationPath D:\Configfiles\Lab02\NetworkConfig.xml
  ```

15. To set the IPSec shared key for the classic VNet gateway, type the following command at the Windows PowerShell command prompt, and then press Enter.

  ```
  Set-AzureVNetGatewayKey -VnetName Adatum-Branch-Vnet -LocalNetworkSiteName  HQ -SharedKey 12345
  ```

16. Wait for the command to complete and display the StatusCode **OK**.

17. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **More services**. 

18. In the list of services, click **Virtual networks (classic)**

19. On the **Virtual networks (classic)** blade, click **ADATUM-BRANCH-VNET**.

20. On the **ADATUM-BRANCH-VNET** blade, on the **VPN connections** tile, verify that the **ADATUM-BRANCH-VNET** and **HQ** are connected. This will be indicated by a green checkmark between the local Gateway and the HQ virtual network. You might need to refresh the Internet Explorer page.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have deployed dynamic routing gateways for each virtual network as well as connected the A. Datum HQ and branch virtual networks.


## Exercise 2: Configuring a point-to-site VPN
  
#### Task 1: Configure a VPN from a client to the HQ virtual network
  
1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, click **More services** and, in the list of services, click **Virtual networks**.

2. On the **Virtual networks** blade, click **HQ**.

3. On the **HQ** blade, in the **connected devices** section of the **Overview** blade, click **gatewayARM**.

4. On the gatewayARM blade, click **Point-to-site configuration**.

5. In the **Address pool** text box, type **172.16.0.0/24**, press Enter, and click **Save**.

6. On MIA-CL1, right-click **Start** and click **Command Prompt (Admin)**. When prompted by User Account Control whether to proceed, click **Yes**.

9. Switch back to the Windows PowerShell window.

10.  Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $rootCert = New-SelfSignedCertificate -Type Custom -KeySpec Signature -Subject 'CN=AdatumRootCertificate' -KeyExportPolicy Exportable -HashAlgorithm sha256 -KeyLength 2048 -CertStoreLocation 'Cert:\CurrentUser\My' -KeyUsageProperty Sign -KeyUsage CertSign -FriendlyName 'AdatumRootCertificate'
  ```

11. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  [System.Convert]::ToBase64String($rootCert.RawData)
  ```

12. In the Windows PowerShell window, select the the output of the previous command and press Enter to copy it into Clipboard.

13. Start Notepad and paste the entire content you copied into Clipboard. 

14. In Notepad, remove all line breaks and any trailing spaces.

15. Copy the content of Notepad into Clipboard.

16. Switch back to Internet Explorer.

17. Paste the copied text into the **PUBLIC CERTIFICATE DATA** textbox on the **gatewayARM - Point-to-site configuration** blade of the Azure portal. 

18. In the **NAME** text box to the left, type **AdatumRootCertificate** and click **Save**.

19. Switch back to the Windows PowerShell window.

20. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  New-SelfSignedCertificate -Type Custom -KeySpec Signature -Subject 'CN=AdatumClientCertificate' -KeyExportPolicy Exportable -HashAlgorithm sha256 -KeyLength 2048 -CertStoreLocation 'Cert:\CurrentUser\My' -Signer $rootCert -TextExtension @("2.5.29.37={text}1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.2") -FriendlyName 'AdatumClientCertificate'
  ```

21. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, run the following command:

  ```
  Get-ChildItem Cert:\CurrentUser\My\
  ```

22. Verify that both the **AdatumClientCertificate** and **AdatumRootCertificate** display in the Personal store.


#### Task 2: Connect to the HQ virtual network via Point-to-Site VPN
  
1. Switch back to Internet Explorer tab displaying the Azure portal.

2. On the **gatewayARM - Point-to-site configuration** blade, click **Download VPN client**.

3. On the **Download VM client** blade, ensure that the **x64** option is selected and click **Download**.

4. When prompted whether to save or run the file, click **Run**.

5. If prompted by the **Windows protected your PC** dialog box, click **More** **Info**, and then click **Run anyway**.

6. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**. 

7. In the **HQ** dialog box, click **Yes**. Wait for the installation to complete.

8. Click **Start** and then click **Settings**.

9. In the **Settings** app, click **Network &amp; Internet** and then click **VPN**.

10. Click **HQ**, and then click **Connect**. This will open the **HQ** dialog box.

11. Click **Connect** again.

12. When prompted to accept that the Connection Manager needs elevated privileges to run CMROUTE.DLL, click **Continue**.

13. After the connection is established, switch back to the Command Prompt window

14. At the Command Prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  ipconfig /all
  ```

15. In the results, verify that there is a PPP adapter **HQ** section displaying an IP address from the IP address range you defined for the point to site connectivity (172.16.0.0/24).

16. At the Command Propmt, type the following and press **Enter**:

  ```
  mstsc /admin /f /v:10.0.0.4
  ```

17. If prompted whether to connect, click **Yes**.

18. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then click **OK**:


  - User name: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**


1. If prompted again whether to connect, click **Yes**.

2. This will establish a Remote Desktop session to the private IP address of ARMSrv2 Azure virtual machine. Verify that you can successfully log on to ARMSrv2.
> **Note:** Note that you could potentially also test connectivity to a file share on ARMSrv2 Azure virtual machine or ping it by its IP address, however, that would require modifying Windows Firewall settings on ARMSrv2 in order to allow File and Printer Sharing traffic.

3. Close the Remote Desktop session.

4. Switch back to the VPN tab of the **NETWORK &amp; INTERNET** page of the Settings app.

5. Click **Disconnect**, next to the **HQ** entry.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured and tested a point-to-site VPN connection.


## Exercise 3: Validating virtual network connectivity
  
#### Task 1: Connect to the A. Datum VMs via RDP
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **More services** and, in the list of services, click **Virtual machines (classic)**.

2. On the Virtual machines blade, click **ClassicSrv1**.

3. On the **ClassicSrv1** blade, click **Connect**. If prompted by the pop-up blocker, allow the pop-up.

4. When prompted whether to open or save the .rdp file, click **Open**. If prompted **How do you want to open this file?**, click **Remote Desktop Connection** and click **OK**.

5. If a Remote Desktop Connection warning message displays, select **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer**, and then click **Connect**. 

6. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, type the following credentials, and then click **OK**:

  - User name: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

1. If another Remote Desktop Message displays, select the **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer** checkbox, and then click **Yes**.

2. Minimize the ClassicSrv1 RDP session.

3. Back in the Azure portal, click **More services** in the hub menu on the left hand side of the window and, in the list of services, click **Virtual machines**.

4. On the **Virtual machines** blade, click **ARMSrv2**.

5. On the **ARMSrv2** blade, click **Connect** in the toolbar. If prompted by the pop-up blocker, allow the pop-up.

6. When prompted whether to open or save the ** .rdp** file, click **Open**.

7. If a Remote Desktop Connection warning message displays, select **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer**, and then click **Connect**.

8. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, type the following credentials, and then click **OK**:

  - User name: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

9. If another Remote Desktop Message displays, select **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer**, and then click **Yes**.



#### Task 2: Test direct TCP/IP connectivity between the virtual networks
  
1. From the ARMSrv2 RDP session, if prompted whether to enable network discovery, click **No**.

2. Wait until the Server Manager window opens. In Server Manager, click **Local Server**.

3. If the status of Windows Firewall is **On** for the Public profile, click **Public:On**.

4. In Windows Firewall, click **Turn Windows Firewall on or off**.

5. Under Public network settings, click **Turn off Windows Firewall (not recommended)**, and then click **OK**.

6. Close the **Windows Firewall** window.

7. Minimize the ARMSrv2 RDP session.

8. Maximize the ClassicSrv1 RDP session.

9. If prompted whether to enable network discovery, click **No**.

10. In the ClassicSrv1 RDP session, click **Windows PowerShell** icon on the taskbar.

11. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command to test connectivity to the private IP address of ARMSrv1, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Test-Connection 10.0.0.4
  ```

12. Verify that test is successful.



#### Task 3: Reset the environment
  
1. Close all open applications without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**. 

3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Reset-Azure
  ```

5. When prompted, sign in (twice) by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.

6. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want to target with the script.

7. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

> **Note:** This script might remove Azure services in your subscription. Therefore, we recommend that you use an Azure trial pass that was provisioned specifically for this course, and not your own Azure account.
> The script will take 5-10 minutes to reset your Microsoft Azure environment, and ready it for the next lab. 
> The script removes all storage, virtual machines (VMs), virtual networks and gateways, cloud services, and resource groups.
> **Important**: The script might not be able to get exclusive access to a storage account to delete it (you will see an error, if this occurs). If you find objects remaining after the reset script is complete, you can re-run **Reset-Azure** script, or use the full Azure Management Portal to manually delete all the objects in your Azure subscription, with the exception of the default directory.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have verified that VMs can communicate between the virtual networks.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
