# Lab Answer Key: Module 9: Implementing Azure Active Directory
# Lab: Implementing Azure AD
  
## Exercise 1: Administering Azure AD
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure Active Directory tenant
  
1. Ensure that the MSL-TMG1 and 20533C-MIA-CL1 virtual machines are both running, and then sign in to 20533C-MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Start Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at **http://portal.azure.com**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your subscription.

3. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **+ New**, click **Security + Identity** and then, click **Azure Active Directory**.

4. On the **Active Directory Enterprise** blade, specify the following and click **Create**:

  - Organization name: **Adatum**

  - Initial domain name: _a unique, valid name_

  - Country or region: **United States**

5. Leave Internet Explorer open and wait until the Azure Active Directory tentant is provisioned. Note the unique name you specified, since you will need it later in this task


#### Task 2: Activate Azure AD Premium trial
  
1. In Internet Explorer, click your name in the upper right corner of the Azure portal and, in the drop-down menu, click the name of the Azure Active Directory tenant you created in the previous task.

2. In the hub menu on the left hand side, click the **Azure Active Directory** icon. You might need to expand the hub menu to see the labels of the icons. This should automatically display the **adatum** Azure Active Directory tenant blade.

3. Click **Quick Start**.

4. Click **Get a free trial for Azure AD Premium**.

5. On the **activate** blade, in the **AZURE AD PREMIUM** section, click **Free trial**.

6. On the **Activate Azure AD Premium trial**, click **Activate**.

7. Click the notification area to verify that the Azure AD Premium trial was successfully activated.


#### Task 3: Manage users by using the Azure portal
  
1. In the hub menu on the left hand side, click the **Azure Active Directory** icon. You might need to expand the hub menu to see the labels of the icons. This should automatically display the **adatum** Azure Active Directory tenant blade.

2. On the **adatum** blade, click **Users and groups**.

3. Click **All users**.

4. Click **+ New user**

5. On the **User** blade, specify the following settings:

  - Name: **Remi Desforges**
  
  - User name: **rdesforges@_unique-domain-name_.onmicrosoft.com**

where **_unique-domain-name_** is the name you assigned to the Azure Active Directory tenant in the first task of this exercise.

6. Click **Profile** and, on the **Profile** blade, specify the following settings and click **OK**:

    - First Name: **Remi**

    - Last Name: **Desforges**

7. Accept the default **Properties**, **Groups** and **Directory role** settings, click the **Show Password** checkbox and note the temporary password.

8. Click **Create**.

9. Click **+ New user**

5. On the **User** blade, specify the following settings:

  - Name: **Karen Gruber**
  
  - User name: **kgruber@_unique-domain-name_.onmicrosoft.com**

where **_unique-domain-name_** is the name you assigned to the Azure Active Directory tenant in the first task of this exercise.

6. Click **Profile** and, on the **Profile** blade, specify the following settings and click **OK**:

  - First Name: **Karen**
  
  - Last Name: **Gruber**

7. Accept the default **Properties** and **Groups** settings and click **Directory role**.

8. On the **Directory role** blade, click **Global administrator** and click **OK**.

9. Click the **Show Password** checkbox and note the temporary password.

10. Click **Create**.

11. Start an in-private Internet Explorer session and browse to the Azure portal at **http://portal.azure.com**.

12. When prompted to sign in, specify the full user name (including the @_domain name_.onmicrosoft.com suffix) of Remi Desforges' account and the corresponding temporary password. 

13. On the **Update your password** page, in the **Current password** box, type again the temporary password. In the **New password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type **Pa55w.rd**, and click **Update password and sign in**.

14. If prompted to start Microsoft Azure tour, click **Maybe later**. Next, click the user name in the upper-right corner and, in the drop-down menu, click **Sign out**

15. Close the in-private Internet Explorer session.

16. Start an in-private Internet Explorer session and browse to the Azure classic portal at **http://manage.windowsazure.com**.

17. When prompted to sign in, specify the full user name (including the @_domain name_.onmicrosoft.com suffix) of Karen Gruber's account and the corresponding temporary password. 

18. On the **Update your password** page, in the **Current password** box, type the temporary password. In the **New password** and**Confirm password** boxes, type**Pa55w.rd**, and click **Update password and sign in**.

19. Note the message stating **No subscription found**. Click **SIGN OUT** and close the in-private session of Internet Explorer.


#### Task 4: Manage groups by using the Azure portal

1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the **adatum** blade.

2. On the **adatum** blade, click **Users and groups**.

3. Click **All users**.

4. Click your user account that is the Service Administrator of your subscription.

5. Click **Profile**.

6. In the **Usage location** drop down list, select your location and click **Save**.

7. Navigate back to the **adatum** blade, click **Licenses**.

8. In the **Essentials** section, click **1 product**.

9. On the **Products** blade, select the **Azure Active Directory Premium P2** checkbox and click **+ Assign**

10. On the **Assign license** blade, click **Users and groups**.

11. On the **Users and groups** blade, in the **Select** text box, type the name of your user account, ensure that the account name appears underneath the text box, click the account name, and then click **Select**.

12. Click **Assignment options**.

13. On the **License options** blade, verify that **Azure Active Directory Premium P2**, **Azure Active Directory Premium Plan 1**, and **Azure Multi-Factor Authentication** are set to **On** and click **OK**.  

14. Click **Assign**.

15. Verify that the assignment completed successfully. 

16. Navigate back to the **adatum** blade and click **Users and groups**.

17. Click **Group settings**.

18. On the **General** blade, specify the following settings and click **Save**:

  - Self-service group management enabled: **Yes**.
  
  - Users can create security groups: **Yes**

19. Back on the **Users and Groups** blade, click **All groups**.

20. Click **+ New group**.

21. On the **Group** blade, specify the following settings:

  - Name: **Sales**

  - Description: **Sales employees**
  
  - Membership type: **Assigned**

  - Enable Office features?: **No**

22. Click **Members**.

23. On the **Members** blade, in the **Select** text box, type **Remi Desforges** and, once the user entry appears below the text box, select it and click **Select**. 

24. Click **Create** and close the **Group** blade.

25. Scroll back to the **Users and groups - All groups** blade and click **+ New group**.

26. On the **Group** blade, specify the following settings:

  - Name: **Marketing**

  - Description: **Marketing employees**
  
  - Membership type: **Assigned**

  - Enable Office features?: **No**

27. Click **Members**.

28. On the **Members** blade, in the **Select** text box, type **Karen Gruber** and, once the user entry appears below the text box, select it and click **Select**. 

29. Click **Create** and close the **Group** blade.

30. Scroll back to the **Users and groups - All groups** blade and click **+ New group**.

31. On the **Group** blade, specify the following settings:

  - Name: **Sales and Marketing**

  - Description: **Sales and Marketing employees**
  
  - Membership type: **Assigned**

  - Enable Office features?: **No**

32. Click **Members**.

33. On the **Members** blade, in the **Select** text box, type **Sales** and, once the group entry appears below the text box, select it and click **Select**.

34. On the **Members** blade, in the **Select** text box, type **Marketing** and, once the group entry appears below the text box, select it and click **Select**.

34. Click **Create** and close the **Group** blade.


#### Task 5: Manage users and groups by using Azure PowerShell
  
1. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run ISE as Administrator**. If prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

2. In the PowerShell ISE, click **File**, and then click **Open**.

3. In the **Open** dialog box, browse to D:\\Labfiles\\Lab09\\Starter\\.

4. Click **Set-AzureAD20553C09Lab.ps1**, and then click **Open**.

5. If the script pane is not visible, on the **View** menu, click **Show Script Pane**.

6. In the PowerShell ISE, in the console pane, enter the following command and press Enter:

  ```
  Connect-MsolService
  ```

7. In the **Enter Credentials** dialog box, enter the full user name (including the @_domain name_.onmicrosoft.com suffix) of Karen Gruber and its password **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **OK**.

8. In the PowerShell ISE, in the script pane, locate the following code:

  ```
  New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName mledford@<#Copy your Azure Directory domain name here#>.onmicrosoft.com -DisplayName 'Mario Ledford' -FirstName 'Mario' -LastName 'Ledford' -Password 'Pa55w.rd' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation 'US'
  ```

9. Replace **<#Copy your Azure Directory domain name here#>** with the unique name you used to specify the DNS domain name of the Adatum Azure AD tenant

10. In the PowerShell ISE window, in the script pane, select the code that you just edited.

11. On the toolbar, click the **Run Selection** button and wait for the script to complete.

12. In the PowerShell ISE window, in the console pane, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser
  ```

13. In the PowerShell ISE window, in the script pane, locate the following code and select it:

  ```
  New-MsolGroup -DisplayName 'Azure team' -Description 'Adatum Azure team users'
  ```

14. On the toolbar, click the **Run Selection** button and wait for the script to complete.

15. In the PowerShell ISE window, in the console pane, enter the following command, and press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroup
  ```

16. In the PowerShell ISE window, in the script pane, locate the following code and select it:

  ```
  $group = Get-MsolGroup | Where-Object DisplayName -eq 'Azure team'
  ```

17. On the toolbar, click the **Run Selection** button, and wait for the script to complete.

18. In the PowerShell ISE window, in the script pane, locate the following code and select it:

  ```
  $user = Get-MsolUser | Where-Object DisplayName -eq 'Mario Ledford'
  ```

19. On the toolbar, click the **Run Selection** button, and wait for the script to complete.

20. In the PowerShell ISE window, in the script pane, locate the following code and select it:

  ```
  Add-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $group.ObjectId -GroupMemberType 'User' -GroupMemberObjectId $user.ObjectId
  ```

21. On the toolbar, click the **Run Selection** button, and wait for the script to complete.

22. In the PowerShell ISE window, in the script pane, locate the following code and select it:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $group.ObjectId
  ```

23. On the toolbar, click the **Run Selection** button, and wait for the script to complete.

24. Switch to the **adatum** blade of the Azure  portal in Internet Explorer and refresh the page.

25. Click **All users**, and verify that **Mario Ledford** appears in the list of users.

26. Click **All groups**, and verify that **Azure team** appears in the list of groups.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created Azure AD users and groups by using the Azure portal and Microsoft Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell. You also should have enabled the delegated group management Azure AD Premium functionality.


## Exercise 2: Configuring Application SSO 
  
#### Task 1: Add directory applications and configure SSO
  
1. Navigate to the **adatum** page in the Azure portal, click **Enterprise applications**.

2. Click **New application**.

3. On the **Categories** blade, click the top entry in the list of categories that includes all applications.

4. On the **Add an application** blade, in the search box, type **Microsoft**.

5. Click **Microsoft Account (Windows Live)** and click **Add**. Wait till the application gets added.

6. On the **Microsoft Account (Windows Live) - Quick start** blade, click **Configure single sign-on (required)**. 

7. On the **Single sign-on** blade, in the **Mode** drop-down list, select **Pasword-based Sign-on** and click **Save**. 

8. Click **Assign a user for testing (required)**.

9. On the **Users and groups** blade, click **+ Add user**.

10. On the **Add assignment** blade, click **Users and groups**. 

11. On the **Users and groups** blade, type **Mario Ledford**.

12. Select the entry representing the Mario Ledford user account and click **Select**.

13. Click **Assign**.

14. On the **Users and groups** blade, click **Mario Ledford** and then click **Update Credentials**.

15. On the **Update Credentials** blade, in the **Email Address** box, type the name of your Microsoft Account you are using for this lab. In the **Password** box, type the corresponding password, and then click **Save**.

16. Scroll back to the **Add an application** blade, in the search box, type **Skype**.

17. Click **Skype** and click **Add**. Wait till the application gets added.

18. On the **Skype - Quick start** blade, click **Configure single sign-on (required)**. 

19. On the **Single sign-on** blade, in the **Mode** drop-down list, select **Pasword-based Sign-on** and click **Save**. 

20. Click **Assign a user for testing (required)**.

21. On the **Users and groups** blade, click **+ Add user**.

22. On the **Add assignment** blade, click **Users and groups**. 

23. On the **Users and groups** blade, type **Mario Ledford**.

24. Select the entry representing the Mario Ledford user account and click **Select**.

25. Click **Assign**.

26. On the top right side of the page, click your Azure account name, and then click **Sign out**.


#### Task 2: Configure SSO on a client computer
  
1. From Internet Explorer, browse to **https://myapps.microsoft.com**

2. On the **Microsoft Azure** page, click **Use another account**.

3. When prompted to sign in, specify the full user name (including the @_domain name_.onmicrosoft.com suffix) of the Mario Ledford's account and **Pa55w.rd** as the corresponding password. 

4. On the applications page, click the ellipsis next to **Skype**. Note the option to update the credentials. 

5. On the applications page, click the ellipsis next to **Microsoft Account**. Note that there is no option to update the credentials. 

6. On the applications page, click **Skype**. 

7. In the **Skype** dialog box, click **Install Now**.

8. At the bottom of the Internet Explorer window, click **Run**.

5. In the **Access Panel Extension** dialog box, on the **Welcome to the Access Panel Extension Setup Wizard** page, click **Next**.

6. On the **Install Access Panel Extension** page, click **Install**.

7. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

8. In the **Access Panel Extension** dialog box, on the **Completed the Access Panel Extension Setup Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

9. On the Internet Explorer bar, click **Enable**. If you do not see the **Enable** button, click the **gear wheel** icon in the upper right corner of Internet Explorer, click **Internet Options**, in the Internet Options dialog box, click **Programs**, on the **Programs** tab, click **Manage add-ons**, click **Access Panel Extensions**, click **Enable**, click **Close** and click **OK**.

10. Close Internet Explorer.

11. Start Internet Explorer.

12. In Internet Explorer, browse to **https://myapps.microsoft.com**.

13. When prompted to sign in, specify the full user name (including the @_domain name_.onmicrosoft.com suffix) of the Mario Ledford's account and the corresponding password. 

14. Click **Skype**. Note that you are now prompted for credentials, because you did not enter any credentials on behalf of the user when configuring SSO. 

15. Click **Cancel** in the **Skype** dialog box.

16. Click the user name in the upper right corner of the Internet Explorer page and click **Sign out**.

17. Close Internet Explorer.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have installed and configured a test application and validated the SSO experience.


## Exercise 3: Configuring Multi-Factor Authentication
  
#### Task 1: Configure Multi-Factor Authentication
  
1. Start Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure  portal at **http://portal.azure.com**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your subscription.

2. In the hub menu, click **More services** and then, in the list of services, click **Azure Active Directory**.

3. On the **adatum** blade, click **Users and groups**.

4. Click **All users**.

5. Click **Multi-Factor Authentication**. This will open another Internet Explorer tab.

5. In the **multi-factor authentication** section, click **Manage service settings**.

6. If prompted, sign in using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your subscription.

7. On the **multi-factor authentication** page, click **users**.

8. In the **users** list, select the check box next to **Karen Gruber** and, in the **quick steps** section, click **Enable**. 

9. On the **About enabling multi-factor auth** page, click **enable multi-factor auth**.

10. On the **Updates successful** page, click **close**.

11. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Test Multi-Factor Authentication
  
1. Start Internet Explorer and browse to **https://myapps.microsoft.com**

2. On the **Microsoft Azure** page, click **Use another account**.

3. When prompted to sign in, specify the full user name (including the @_domain name_.onmicrosoft.com suffix) of the Karen Gruber's account and the corresponding password. You will be presented with the message stating _Your admin has required that you set up this account for additional security verification_.

4. Click **Set it up now**.

5. On the **Additional security verification** page, in the first drop-down list, select **Authentication phone**.

6. Enter your phone number and, under **Method** select **Call me**. Click **Contact me**.

7. Answer the phone call and press **#** on your phone. On the page **Step 3: Keep using your existing applications** click **Done**.

7. Close Internet Explorer.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Multi-Factor Authentication for a Global Admin account.


## Exercise 4: Configuring SSO from a Windows 10-based computer that is joined to Azure AD
  
#### Task 1: Join a Windows 10-based computer to Azure AD
  
1. Start Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure classic portal at **http://manage.windowsazure.com**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your subscription.

2. In the navigation panel on the left, click **ACTIVE DIRECTORY**.

3. Click **Adatum**.

4. Click **CONFIGURE**.

5. Scroll down to the **devices** section.

6. Verify that **USERS MAY JOIN DEVICES TO AZURE AD** is set to**ALL**.

7. On MIA-CL1, click the Start button, and then click **Settings**.

8. In **Settings**, click **Accounts**, and then click **Access work or school**.

9. On the **Connect to work or school** page, click **Connect**. This will open the **Set up a work or school account** window.

10. Click **Join this device to Azure Active Directory**.

11. On the **Let's get you signed in** page, specify the full user name (including the @_domain name_.onmicrosoft.com suffix) of the Karen Gruber's account and the corresponding password and click **Sign in**.

12. On the **Help us protect your account** page, click **Set it up now**.

13. On the **Verify your identity** page, from drop-down menu, select **Phone call**.

14. In the **Select your country or region** drop-down list, select the country or region where your phone is registered. In the **Phone number** text box, type your phone number. click **Next**.

15. Accept the incoming call and press the # key on your phone to complete verification.

16. On the **Keep your existing apps working** page, click **Next**.

17. On the **Make sure this is your organization** page, click **Join**.

18. On the **You're all set** page, click **Done**.

19. Switch back to Internet Explorer.

20. On the **adatum** page, click **USERS** and then click **Karen Gruber**

21. Click the **DEVICES** tab.

22. In the **YOU ARE ABOUT TO VIEW PRIVATE USER DATA** window, click the **IT IS ACCEPTABLE FOR ADMINS IN MY ORGANIZATION TO VIEW THIS DATA** checkbox and click **OK**.

23. In the **VIEW** drop-down list, click **Devices**.

24. Verify that **MIA-CL1** is listed.

25. Restart **MIA-CL1**.



#### Task 2: Authenticate to Azure from a Windows 10 Azure-joined computer
  
1. Sign in to MIA-CL1 by using the full user name (including the @_domain name_.onmicrosoft.com suffix) of the Karen Gruber's Adatum Azure AD account and **Pa55w.rd** as its password.

2. On the **Your organization requires Windows Hello** page, click **Setup PIN**.

3. When presented with **Help us protect your account**, accept the incoming call and press the # key on your phone to complete verification.

4. On the **Set up a PIN** page, type and retype a four-digit PIN, and then click **OK**. Note that you cannot use a common number pattern (such as four identical digits).

5. On the **We'll be ready soon** page, click **OK**.

6. Start Microsoft Edge, and then go to **https://portal.azure.com**.

7. Verify that you are automatically signed in as Karen Gruber by using SSO.

8. Close all open applications sign out from MIA-CL1.



#### Task 3: Reset the environment
  
1. Sign in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**. 

3. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. In the PowerShell ISE window, in the console pane, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Reset-Azure
  ```

5. When prompted (twice), sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your subscription.

6. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the deprovisioning script to target.

7. When prompted for confirmation, type **y.**

> **Note:** This script removes Azure services in your subscription. Therefore, we recommend that you use an Azure trial pass that was provisioned specifically for this course and not your own Azure account.
> The script resets your Azure environment so that it is ready for the next lab. 
> The script removes all storage accounts, virtual machines, virtual networks, cloud services, and resource groups containing these resources.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have joined the MIA-CL1 computer to Azure AD and tested the SSO access to the resources in the cloud.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are**not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

