# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Managing virtual machines
# Lab: Managing Azure virtual machines
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring availability
  
#### Task 1: Create virtual machines in an availability set
  
1. On MIA-CL1, open Internet Explorer and navigate to the Azure portal at https://portal.azure.com. 

2. When prompted, sign in using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-administrator of your subscription.

3. In the **Hub** menu, click **New**. In the **New** blade, in the **Search the marketplace** text box, type **Availability Set**, and press **Enter**.

4. On the **Everything** blade, select **Availability Set**. 

5. On the **Availability Set** blade, click **Create**.

6. On the **Create availability set** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

  - Name: **ResDevWebAS**

  - Subscription: **_The Azure subscription you intend to use for this lab_**.

  - Resource group name: click **Create new** and then type **20533C0401-LabRG**.

  - Location: **_The Azure region closest to the location of your lab computer_**.

  - Fault domains: **3**

  - Update domains: **5**
> **Note:** The number of update domains can vary between 5 and 20.

  - Use managed disks: **No (Classic)**

7. Wait for deployment to complete. This should take only a few seconds.

8. In the Azure portal, click **New** on the **Hub** menu.

9. On the **New** blade, click **Compute**.

10. On the **Compute** blade, click **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**.

11. On the **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter** blade, ensure that **Resource Manager** appears in the **Select a deployment model** drop-down list, and then click **Create**. The **Create virtual machine** blade appears and expands its **Basics** blade.

12. On the **Basics** blade, specify the following:

  - Name: **ResDevWebVM1**

  - VM disk type: **HDD**

  - User name: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

  - Subscription: **_The same Azure subscription you used in the previous task_**.

  - Resource group: Click **Use existing** and click **20533C0401-LabRG** in the drop-down list.

  - Location: **_The same location you chose for the availability set_**.

13. Click **OK**. The **Choose a size** blade automatically appears.

14. On the **Choose a size** blade, if needed, click **View all**, click **D1_V2 Standard**, and then click **Select**. The **Settings** blade appears.

15. On the **Settings** blade, specify the following settings:

  - Use managed disks: **No**

  - Virtual network: _Accept the default name **20533C0401-LabRG-vnet** and settings_

  - Subnet: _Accept the default_.

  - Public IP address: _Accept the default name **ResdevWebVM1-ip**_

  - Network security group: _Accept the default name **ResDevWebVM1-nsg**_

  - Availability set: **ResDevWebAS**

  - Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**

  - Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

16. Click **OK**. The **Summary** blade automatically appears.

17. On the **Summary** blade, click **OK**.

18. In the Azure portal, click **New** in the **Hub** menu.

19. On the **New** blade, click **Compute**.

20. On the **Compute** blade, click **Windows Server 2016 Datacenter**. The **Create virtual machine** blade appears and expands its **Basics** blade.

21. On the **Basics** blade, specify the following:

  - Name: **ResDevWebVM2**

  - VM disk type: **HDD**

  - User name: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

  - Subscription: **_The same Azure subscription you used in the previous task_**.

  - Resource group: Click **Use existing** and click **20533C0401-LabRG** in the drop-down list.

  - Location: **_The same location you chose for the availability set_**.

22. Click **OK**. The **Choose a size** blade automatically appears.

23. On the **Choose a size** blade, if needed, click **View all**, click **A1 Standard**, and then click **Select**. The **Settings** blade appears.

24. On the **Settings** blade, specify the following settings:

  - Use managed disks: **No**

  - Virtual network: **20533C0401-LabRG-vnet**

  - Subnet: _Accept the default_.

  - Public IP address: _Accept the default name **ResdevWebVM2-ip**_

  - Network security group: _Accept the default name **ResDevWebVM2-nsg**_

  - Availability set: **ResDevWebAS**

  - Boot diagnostics: **Disabled**

  - Guest OS diagnostics: **Disabled**

25. Click **OK**. The **Summary** blade automatically appears.

26. On the **Summary** blade, click **OK**.

27. In the Azure portal, in the **Hub** menu, click **More services**.

28. In the list of services, click **Availability sets**. 

29. On the **Availability sets** blade, click **ResDevWebAS**.

30. On the **ResDevWebAS** blade, note that the availability set contains the two newly deployed virtual machines (at this point, both of them will likely display the **Creating** status). Note that each VM has a unique fault domain and update domain. You might need to wait a few minutes and refresh the Azure portal page before the updated status is displayed.

31. Leave the Internet Explorer window with the Azure portal open.



#### Task 2: Configure an Azure Load Balancer
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal within the Internet Explorer window, in the Hub menu, click **New**, click **Networking**, and then, on the **Networking** blade, click **Load Balancer**.

2. On the **Create load balancer** blade, specify the following settings:

  - Name: **ResDevWebLB**

  - Type: **Public**

  - Public IP address: **_Create a new dynamic address named ResDevWebLB-ip_**.

  - Subscription: **_The same Azure subscription you used in the previous task_**.

  - Resource group: Click **Use existing** and, in the drop-down list, click **20533C0401-LabRG**

  - Location: **_The same location you chose for the availability set_**.

3. Click **Create**. Wait for the deployment to complete.

4. In the Hub menu, click **More services**, select **Load Balancers** from the list of services, and then on the **Load balancers** blade, click **ResDevWebLB**.

5. On the ResDevWebLB load balancer blade, click **Backend pools**, and then click **Add**.

4. On the **Add backend pool** blade, in the **Name** text box, type **ResDevWebLBPool**, click **IPv4**, and then click **Availability set** in the **Associated to** drop down list.

5. In the **Availability set** drop down list, click **ResDevWebAS**.

6. Click **Add a target network IP configuration**, in the **Target virtual machine** drop down list, click **ResDevWebVM1** and, in the **Network IP configuration** drop down list, click the ipconfig1 entry.

7. Click **Add a target network IP configuration**, in the **Target virtual machine** drop down list, click **ResDevWebVM2** and, in the **Network IP configuration** drop down list, click the ipconfig1 entry.

8. Click **OK**. Wait until the operation completes.

9. On the ResDevWebLB blade, click **Health probes**, and then click **Add**. 

10. On the **Add health probe** blade, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  - Name: **ResDevWebProbe80**

  - Protocol: **HTTP**

  - Port: **80**

  - Path: **/**

  - Interval: **5**

  - Unhealthy threshold: **2**


13. Wait until the operation completes.

14. On the ResDevWebLB blade, click **Load balancing rules**, and then click **Add**.

15. On the **Add load balancing rule** blade, complete the following , and then click **OK**:


  - Name: **ResDevWebLBRule80**

  - Frontend IP address: **LoadBalancerFrontEnd**

  - Protocol: **TCP**

  - Port: **80**

  - Backend port: **80**

  - Backend Pool: **ResDevWebPool (2 virtual machines)**

  - Probe: **ResDevWebProbe80 (HTTP:80)**

  - Session persistence: **None**

  - Idle timeout: **4**

  - Floating IP (direct server return): **Disabled**


16. Wait until the operation completes.

17. On the ResDevWebLB blade, click **Overview**. In the **Essentials** section, you should be able to identify the public IP address assigned to the load balancer. Note that at this point, you will not be able to connect to the two virtual machines in the backend pool, because they are not running a web server and the connectivity is additionally restricted by default network security group settings and the operating system-level firewall. You will change these settings later in this lab.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created an availability set for Azure VMs and configured them up as a load balanced pair.


## Exercise 2: Implementing DSC
  
#### Task 1: Install and configure IIS by using DSC and Windows PowerShell
  
1. On MIA-CL1, start File Explorer and browse to the D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter folder.

2. In the D:\Labfiles\Lab04\Starter folder, right-click on the **IISInstall.ps1** file and select **Edit** from the right-click menu. This will open the file in the **Windows PowerShell ISE**.

3. Review the content of the file. Note that this is a DSC configuration that controls the installation of the Windows Server 2016 Web-Server role. 

4. Close the Windows PowerShell ISE window.

5. In the File Explorer, right click on the D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter\\DeployAzureDSC.ps1 file and select **Edit** from the right-click menu. This will open the file in the **Windows PowerShell ISE** window with the current directory set to D:\\Labfiles\\Lab04\\Starter

6. Review the content of the script. Note the variables that it uses, including the storage account and its key. The script first retrieves the storage account from the resource group, and then publishes the DSC configuration defined in the **Install.ps1** into it, placing it in the default DSC container named **windows-powershell-dsc**, stores the resulting module URL in a variable, and then sets the Azure Agent VM DSC extension on two virtual machines deployed in the previous lab by referencing that URL. The script generates a shared access signature token that provides read only access to the blob representing the DSC configuration archive. 

7. Start the execution of the script. When prompted, sign in using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-administrator of your subscription. Wait until the script completes.

8. Switch to the Azure portal displayed in the Internet Explorer window.

9. Within the Azure portal, click **Virtual Machines** on the Hub menu.

10. On the Virtual machines blade, click the **ellipsis (...)** to the right of the **ResDevWebVM1** entry and click **Connect**.

11. When prompted whether to open or save the **ResDevWebVM1.rdp** file, click **Open**.

12. If prompted to confirm that you want to connect, click **Connect**.

13. When prompted to enter credentials to connect, type **Student** as the user name and **Pa55w.rd1234** as the password.

14. If prompted again to confirm that you want to connect, click **Yes**.

15. After you establish a Remote Desktop session to the VM, wait for the Server Manager window to open. In the Server Manager window, verify that IIS appears in the left pane, indicating that the Web Server (IIS) server role is installed.

16. Repeat steps 10 through 15 for the other virtual machine ResDevWebVM2.

17. After completing the tasks, switch back to your lab computer MIA-CL1. Leave both Remote Desktop sessions open.



#### Task 2: Test the DSC configuration and virtual machine availability
  
1. In the Azure portal within the Internet Explorer window on MIA-CL1, on the Hub menu, click **Resource groups**.

2. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **20533C0401-LabRG**.

3. On the **20533C0401-LabRG** blade, in the list of resources, click the **ResDevWebVM1-nsg** entry representing the network security group (with the icon in the form of a shield). This will open the corresponding blade.

4. On the network security group blade, click **Inbound security rules**.

5. On the **Inbound security rules** blade, click **Add**.

6. On the **Add inbound security rue** blade, specify the following settings:


  - Name: **allow-http**

  - Priority: **1010**

  - Source: **Any**

  - Service: **HTTP**

  - Action: **Allow**


7. Click **OK**.

8. In the breadcrumb trail at the top of the portal interface, click **20533C0401-LabRG** to return to the **20533C0401-LabRG** blade.

9. On the **20533C0401-LabRG** blade, in the list of resources, click the **ResDevWebVM2-nsg** entry representing the network security group (with the icon in the form of a shield). This will open the corresponding blade.

10. On the network security group blade, click **Inbound security rules**.

11. On the **Inbound security rules** blade, click **Add**.

12. On the **Add inbound security rules** blade, specify the following settings:


  - Name: **allow-http**

  - Priority: **1010**

  - Source: **Any**

  - Service: **HTTP**

  - Action: **Allow**


13. Click **OK**.

14. In the breadcrumb trail at the top of the portal interface, click **20533C0401-LabRG** to return to the **20533C0401-LabRG** blade.

15. On the **20533C0401-LabRG** blade, in the list of resources, click **ResDevWebLB**, representing the load balancer.

16. On the **ResDevWebLB** blade, note the value of its **IP address** entry.

17. Open a new InPrivate Browsing Internet Explorer session, in the navigation bar, type the IP address that you noted in the previous step, and then press the **Enter** key.

18. Verify that you can access the default IIS webpage.

19. Close the **InPrivate Browsing** window.

20. Switch to the Remote Desktop session on **ResDevWebVM1**. On the **Tools** menu in the **Server Manager** window, select **Services**.

21. In the **Services** window, scroll down to the **World Wide Web Publishing Service** entry, right click on it, and select **Stop** on the context sensitive menu.

22. Switch to the Remote Desktop session on **ResDevWebVM2**. On the **Tools** menu in the **Server Manager** window, select **Services**.

23. In the **Services** window, scroll down to the **World Wide Web Publishing Service** entry, right click on it, and select **Stop** on the context sensitive menu.

24. Switch back to MIA-CL1. From MIA-CL1, open a new InPrivate Browsing Internet Explorer session. In the new Internet Explorer window, click the **cogwheel** icon in the upper-right corner, click **Safety** on the drop-down menu, and then click **Delete browsing history**.

25. In the **Delete Browsing History** dialog box, click **Delete**.

26. In the InPrivate Browsing Internet Explorer window, type the IP address of the load balancer in the navigation bar, and then press the **Enter** key.

27. Verify that the **This page can't be displayed** message appears.

28. Switch back to the **Services** window the Remote Desktop session on ResDevWebVM1.

29. In the **Services** window, right-click the **World Wide Web Publishing Service** entry, and then select **Start** from the right-click menu.

30. Once the service is running, switch back to MIA-CL1 and refresh the InPrivate Browsing Internet Explorer window. Verify that you can again access the default IIS webpage. Note that you might need to wait about a minute after you start the **World Wide Web Publishing Service** service.

> **Note:** Optionally you can repeat this sequence, but this time stopping the **World Wide Web Publishing Service** on ResDevWebVM1 and starting it on ResDevWebVM2. As long as the service is running on at least one of the two virtual machines, you should be able to access the webpage.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have implemented DSC.


## Exercise 3: Implementing Storage Space-based volumes
  
#### Task 1: Attach VHDs to an Azure VM
  
1. On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal within the Internet Explorer window, in the Hub menu, click **Virtual Machines**.

2. On the **Virtual machines** blade, click **ResDevWebVM1**. This automatically opens the **ResDevWebVM1** blade.

3. On the **ResDevWebVM1** blade, click **Disks**.

4. Click **+ Add data disk**.

5. On the **Attach unmanaged** blade, specify the following settings and then click **OK**:


  - Name: **ResDevWebVM1dd01**

  - Resource group: ensure that the **Use existing** option is selected and click **20533C0401-LabRG** in the drop down list.

  - Source type: **New (empty disk)**

  - Account type: **Standard (HDD)**

  - Size: **1023**

  - Storage Container: Click **Browse**, click the existing storage account and the **vhds** container, and click **Select**


6. Wait for the operation to complete.

7. Back on the **ResDevWebVM1 - Disks** blade, ensure that the **HOST CACHING** column contains the **None** entry.

8. Click **+ Add data disk**.

9. On the **Attach unmanaged** blade, specify the following settings and then click **OK**:


  - Name: **ResDevWebVM1dd02**

  - Resource group: ensure that the **Use existing** option is selected and click **20533C0401-LabRG** in the drop down list.

  - Source type: **New (empty disk)**

  - Account type: **Standard (HDD)**

  - Size: **1023**

  - Storage Container: Click **Browse**, click the existing storage account and the **vhds** container, and click **Select**

10. Wait for the operation to complete.

11. Back on the **ResDevWebVM1 - Disks** blade, ensure that the **HOST CACHING** column contains the **None** entry and then click **Save**.


#### Task 2: Configure a Storage Spaces simple volume
  
1. On MIA-CL1, switch to the Remote Desktop session to ResDevWebVM1.

2. In the Remote Desktop session, in the **Server Manager** window, click **File and Storage Services**.

3. In the navigation pane on the left side, click **Storage Pools**.

4. In the **STORAGE POOLS** pane, click the **TASKS** menu, and then click **New Storage Pool** on the drop-down menu. This will open the New Storage Pool Wizard.

5. On the **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.

6. On the **Specify a storage pool name and subsystem** page, type **StoragePool1** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Next**.

7. On **Select physical disks for the storage pool**, select the check boxes next to the two physical disk entries (which represent disks you attached from the Azure portal), and then click **Next**.

8. On the **Confirm selections** page, click **Create**.

9. On the **View results** page, select the **Create a virtual disk when this wizard closes** check box, and then click **Close**. 

10. In the **Select the storage pool** dialog box, ensure that **StoragePool1** is selected and click **OK**. This will launch the New Virtual Disk Wizard.

11. On the **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.

12. On the **Specify the virtual disk name** page, type **VirtualDisk1** in the **Name** text box, and then click **Next**.

13. On the **Enclosure Awareness** page, click **Next**.

14. On the **Select the storage layout** page, click **Simple**, and then click **Next**.

15. On the **Specify the provisioning type** page, ensure that **Fixed** is selected, and then click **Next**.

16. On the **Specify the size of the virtual disk**, select **Maximum size**, and then click **Next**.

17. On the **Confirm selections** page, click **Create**.

18. On the **View results** page, ensure that the **Create a volume when this wizard closes** check box is selected, and then click **Close**. This will open the New Volume Wizard.

19. On the **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.

20. On the **Select the server and disk** page, ensure that **VirtualDisk1** is selected, and then click **Next**.

21. On the **Specify the size of the volume** page, accept the default (2.00 TB), and then click **Next**.

22. On the **Assign to a drive letter or folder** page, set the **Drive letter** to **F**, and then click **Next**.

23. On the **Select file system settings** page, accept the default settings (NTFS with default allocation unit size), and then click **Next**.

24. On the **Confirm selections** page, click **Create**.

25. On the **Completion** page, click **Close**.

26. From the desktop of ResDevWebVM1, open File Explorer, and then verify that there is a new drive F with 2 TB of available disk space.

27. Close the Remote Desktop session to ResDevWebVM1.



#### Task 3: Reset the environment
  
1. Close all open applications without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and press Enter:

  ```
  Reset-Azure
  ```

4. When prompted (twice), sign in using the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription.

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want to target by the script.

6. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

> **Note:** This script will remove Azure services in your subscription. We, therefore, recommend that you use an Azure trial pass that was provisioned specifically for this course, and not your own Azure account.
> The script will take 5 to 10 minutes to reset your Microsoft Azure environment, before it is ready for the next lab.
> The script removes all storage, VMs, virtual networks, cloud services, and resource groups.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have implemented Storage Spaces based volumes in an Azure VM.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
