# Lab Answer Key:  Module 8: Implementing Azure Cloud Services
# Lab: Implementing Azure Cloud Services
  
## Exercise 1: Deploying an Azure Cloud Service
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure SQL Server Database for an Azure Cloud Service
  
1. Ensure that you are signed in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Start Windows Microsoft Edge, navigate to [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and then sign in with an account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

3. From the Azure portal, identify the region in which you can provision an Azure VM of the size **Standard_A1_v2**. This will be the region you will use to provision all resources in this lab.

4. In the Azure portal, click **+ Create resource**. On the **New** blade, click **Databases** and then click **SQL Database**.

5. On the **SQL Database** blade, set the **Database name** to **CloudServiceProdDB**. 

6. Ensure that the name of your Azure subscription appears in the **Subscription** drop down list.

7. In the **Resource group** section, ensure that **Create new** is selected and, in the textbox below, type **20533D0801-LabRG**.

8. In the **Select source** drop down list, click **Blank database**.

9. Click **Server**.

10. On the **Server** blade, click **Create a new server**. 

11. On the **New server** blade, specify the following settings and click **Select**.

- Server name: any valid, unique name

- Server admin login: **Student**

- Password: **Pa55w.rd**

- Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**

- Location: 'the Azure region you identified in step 3 of this task'

- Allow azure services to access server: make sure that the checkbox is **enabled**

12. Back on the SQL Database blade, in the **Want to use SQL elastic pool?** section, ensure that **Not now** is selected

13. Click **Pricing tier**. 

14. On the **Configure performance** blade, click **Basic** and click **Apply**.

15. Leave the default value in the **Collation** text box, leave the **Pin to dashboard** checkbox unchecked, and click **Create**.



#### Task 2: Create an Azure Storage account for an Azure Cloud Service
  
1. In the Azure portal, click **+ Create resource**. On the **New** blade, click **Storage** and then, on the **Storage** blade, click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.

2. On the **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

- Name: 'any unique name consisting of between 3 and 24 lower case letters or digits'

- Deployment model: **Resource manager**

- Account kind: **Storage (general purpose v1)**

- Performance: **Standard**

- Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

- Secure transfer required: **Disabled**

- Subscription: 'the name of the Azure subscription where you created the SQL database in the previous task'

- Resource group: ensure that the **Use existing** option is selected and click **20533D0801-LabRG** in the drop-down list

- Location: 'the same location you specified in the previous task'

- Virtual networks (Preview): **Disabled**

- Pin to dashboard: leave the checkbox **unchecked**



#### Task 3: Configure the service definition file
  
1. On the Taskbar, click **Visual Studio**.

2. Click **File**, click **Open**, and then click **File**.

3. Browse to **E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package**.

4. Click **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**, and then click **Open**.

5. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name set to **AdatumAdsWeb**.

6. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Instances&gt;** element.

7. In the **&lt;Instances&gt;** element, set the **count** attribute to **2**.

8. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name set to **AdatumAdsWorker**.

9. Within that **&lt;Role**> element, locate the **&lt;Instances&gt;** element.

10. In the **&lt;Instances&gt;** element, set the **count** attribute to **2**.

11. Switch to the Azure portal, and, in the hub menu, click **All services**.

12. In the service menu, click **Storage accounts**.

13. On the **Storage accounts** blade, in the list of storage accounts, click the storage acount you created in the previous task of this exercise.

14. On the storage account blade, click **Access keys**

15. Click the **Click to copy** icon next to the **CONNECTION STRING** entry for **key1**. If prompted, click **Allow access**.

16. Switch to Microsoft Visual Studio.

17. In the ServiceConfigurationCloud.cscfg file, locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWeb**.

18. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name set to **StorageConnectionString**.

19. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

20. Place the cursor between the quotation marks and then press **Ctrl+V** to paste the storage connection string you copied from the Azure portal.

21. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWorker**.

22. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name **StorageConnectionString**.

23. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

24. Place the cursor between the quotation marks and then press Ctrl+V to paste the storage connection string you copied from the Azure portal.

25. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWeb**.

26. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name set to **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Plugins.Diagnostics.ConnectionString**.

27. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

28. Place the cursor between the quotation marks and then press **Ctrl+V** to paste the storage connection string you copied from the Azure portal.

29. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWorker**.

30. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name set to **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Plugins.Diagnostics.ConnectionString**.

31. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

32. Place the cursor between the quotation marks and then press **Ctrl+V** to paste the storage connection string you copied from the Azure portal.

33. Switch to the Microsoft Edge window displaying the Azure portal.

34. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left, click **All services**.

35. In the service menu, click **SQL databases**.

36. On the **SQL databases** blade, in the list of SQL databases, click **CloudServiceProdDB**.

37. On the CloudServiceProdDB blade, in the **Settings** section, click the **Connection strings** link.

38. On the **Database connection strings** blade, ensure that the **ADO.NET** tab is selected, click the **Click to copy** icon.

39. Switch back to Visual Studio.

40. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWorker**.

41. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name set to **AdatumAdsDbConnectionString**.

42. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

43. Press Ctrl+V to paste the connection string you copied to the Clipboard.

44. In the connection string you just pasted, locate the text **{your_username}**.

45. Delete the located text, and then replace it with **Student**.

46. In the connection string you just pasted, locate the text **{your_password}**.

47. Delete the located text, and then replace it with **Pa55w.rd**.

48. Click **File** and then click **Save ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**.

49. Click **File** and then click **Close**.



#### Task 4: Deploy an Azure Cloud Service
  
1. In the Azure portal, click **+ Create resource**. In the **Search the Marketplace** text box, type **Cloud service**, and, in the list of results, click **Cloud service**.

2. On the **Cloud service** blade, click **Create**.

3. On the **Cloud service (classic)** blade, specify the following settings

- DNS name: 'any valid, unique name'

- Subscription: 'the name of the Azure subscription you have been using for this lab'

- Resource group: ensure that the **Use existing** option is selected and click **20533D0801-LabRG** in the drop-down list

- Location: 'the same location you have been using in this lab'

4. Click **Package (Optional) Select a package**. 

5. In the **Deployment label** textbox, type **AdatumAdsProd**.

6. Ensure that the **Package/configuration location** option is set to **from local**.

7. Set **Storage account** to the storage account you created in the second task of this exercise.

8. Next to the **Package (.cspkg, .zip)** text box, click the folder icon.

9. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package**.

10. Click **AdatumAdsCloudService.cspkg**, and then click **Open**.

11. Wait until the package is fully uploaded.

12. Next to the **Configuration (.cscfg)** box, click the folder icon.

13. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package**.

14. Click **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**, and then click **Open**.

15. Wait until the configuration file is fully uploaded.

16. Ensure that **Environment** switch is set to **Production** and that the **Start deployment** checkbox is enabled.

17. Click **OK**.

18. Back on the **Cloud service (classic)** blade, leave the **Certificates** section and the **Pin to dashboard** checkbox with their default values and click **Create**.

> **Note:** Wait for the deployment to complete. This might take a few minutes. 

> **Result**: You created a storage account and a SQL database, edited the service configuration file, and deployed the cloud service to the production slot.



## Exercise 2: Configuring deployment slots and RDP
  
#### Task 1: Perform a staged deployment of an Azure Cloud Service
  
1. In the Azure portal in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Hub menu, click **All services** and then click **Cloud services (classic)**.

2. In the **Cloud services (classic)** blade, click the cloud service you created in the prevous task.

3. On the **Overview** page of the cloud service, click **Production** in the toolbar and then click **Staging** in the drop-down list.

4. Click **Upload** in the toolbar.

5. On the **Upload a package** blade, in the **Deployment label** text box, type **AdatumAdsStage**.

6. Ensure that the **Package/configuration location** option is set to **from local**.

7. Click **Storage account**

8. On the **Choose storage account** blade, click the storage account you created in the previous exercise.

9. Next to the **Package (.cspkg, .zip)** text box, click the folder icon.

10. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Staging\\Package**.

11. Click **AdatumAdsCloudService.cspkg**, and then click **Open**.

12. Wait until the package is fully uploaded.

13. Next to the **Configuration (.cscfg)** box, click the folder icon.

14. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **E:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package**.

15. Click **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**, and then click **Open**.

16. Wait until the configuration file is fully uploaded.

17. Ensure that the **Start deployment** checkbox is enabled.

18. Click **OK**.

> **Note:** Wait for the deployment to complete. This might take a few minutes. Make sure that all roles in the Staging slot appearing on the cloud service blade  are listed with the **Running** status before you proceed.


#### Task 2: Configure RDP access


1. On MIA-CLI, on the Taskbar, right-click the **Windows PowerShell** icon and, in the right-click menu, click **Run as Administrator**. If prompted by the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

2. Sign in to the Azure subscription by typing the following command in the Windows PowerShell window, and then pressing Enter:

  ```
  Add-AzureAccount
  ```

3. In the sign-in windows that appears, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

4. If you have multiple subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account, to identify the subscription in which you are going to create a virtual network, type the following command, and then press Enter

```
  Get-AzureSubscription
```

5. Note the value of the **`Id`** property for each subscription in the output of the previous command. To specify the subscription in which you are going to create a virtual network, type the following commands, and then press Enter (replace **`SubscriptionId`** with the actual SubscriptionId property of that subscription):

```
  Select-AzureSubscription -SubscriptionId 'SubscriptionId'
```

6. Next, execute the following script by typing each of the following commands at the Windows PowerShell prompt, replacing **`cloud-service-name`** with the name of the cloud service you deployed earlier in this lab, and pressing Enter:

```
  $serviceName = 'cloud-service-name'

  $userName = 'Student'

  $securePassword = 'Pa55w.rd1234' | ConvertTo-SecureString -AsPlainText -Force

  $expirationDate = $(Get-Date).AddDays(31)

  $credential = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential $userName,$securePassword

  Set-AzureServiceRemoteDesktopExtension -ServiceName $serviceName -Credential $credential -Expiration $expirationDate -Slot Production

  Set-AzureServiceRemoteDesktopExtension -ServiceName $serviceName -Credential $credential -Expiration $expirationDate -Slot Staging
```
  

#### Task 3: Test connectivity

1. In the Azure portal in the Microsoft Edge window, in the cloud service blade, with the **Overview** page open, click **Staging** and then, in the drop-down list, click **Production**. 

2. Click the link under the **Site URL** label. This will open the production cloud service home page in a new Microsoft Edge tab. Leave the new Microsoft Edge tab open. You will use it in the next exercise.

3. Switch back to the Microsoft Edge tab displaying the Azure portal. In the cloud service blade, with the **Overview** page open, click **Production** in the toolbar and then, in the drop-down list, click **Staging**.

4. Click the link under the **Site URL** label. This will open the staging cloud service home page in a new Microsoft Edge tab. Note that the staging web site is different from the production one.

5. Close the new Microsoft Edge tab.

6. Switch back to the Azure portal. In the cloud service blade, with the **Overview** page open, click **Staging** in the drop-down list, click **Production**. 

7. In the cloud service blade, click **Roles and Instances**.

8. Click **AdatumAdsWeb_IN_0**.

9. On the **AdatumAdsWeb_IN_0** blade, click **Connect**.

10. When prompted whether to open or save the **AdatumAdsWeb_IN_0.rdp**, click **Open**.

11. If a Remote Desktop Connection warning message displays, select **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer**, and then click **Connect**. 

12. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, type the following credentials, and then click **OK**:

  - User name: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

13. If another Remote Desktop Message displays, select the **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer** checkbox, and then click **Yes**. The Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) client displays the desktop for the first instance of the web role.

14. Close the remote desktop connection. 

15. In the Remote Desktop Connection window, click **OK**.

> **Result**: At the end of this exercise you have performed a staging deployment of an Azure Cloud Service, enable RDP access to an Azure Cloud Service, and connected to cloud service instances via HTTP and via RDP.



## Exercise 3: Monitoring cloud services
  
#### Task 1: Add metrics to the cloud service monitoring
  
1. In the Microsoft Edge window, in the Azure portal, click **Staging** and then, in the drop-down list, click **Production**. 

2. In the MONITORING section, click **Metrics**.

3. On the Metrics blade, ensure that **AdatumAdsWeb** appears in the **Role** drop down list, and scroll down to the **Network in and out** chart.



#### Task 2: Create an alert for a cloud service
  
1. Click **Network in and out** chart.

2. On the **Metric** blade, click **Add metric alert**.

3. On the **Add rule** blade, specify the following and click **OK**:

- Name: **Network In Alert**

- Description: **Test network in alert**

- Alert on: **Metrics**

- Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab

- Resource group: **20533D0801-LabRG**

- Resource: leave at its default value

- Metric: **Network In**

- Condition: **greater than**
	
- Threshold: **1**

- Period: **Over the last 5 minutes**

- Email owners, contributors, and readers: **enable** the checkbox

- Additional administrator email(s): 'type the email address of the Service Administrator account of your Azure subscription'

- Webhook: leave the textbox **clear**

4. Switch to the Microsoft Edge tab showing the **Production** deployment of the cloud service. Refresh the page several times.

> **Note:** It might take over 5 minutes before the alert is triggered.


#### Task 3: Monitor a cloud service
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **All services** and then, int the service menu, click **Monitor**.

2. On the **Monitor** blade, click **Alerts**

3. In the list of alerts, note the **Network In Alert** entry and identify the value in the **LAST ACTIVE** column.

3. Open a new Microsoft Edge tab.

4. In the address bar, type [**https://www.outlook.com**](https://www.outlook.com) and then press Enter.

5. If you are prompted to sign in, type the user name and password of the Microsoft Account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 

6. In the list of emails, click **Microsoft Azure Alerts**.

7. Inspect the details of the alert.

8. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 4: Remove the lab environment
  
1. On MIA-CL1, close all open windows without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click the **Windows PowerShell** icon, and then click **Run as Administrator**. In the User Account Control dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and then press **Enter**:

  ```
  Remove-20533DEnvironment
  ```

4. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

6. If prompted, specify the current lab number.

7. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

8. Start Microsoft Edge, browse to the Azure portal at [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

9. In the Azure portal, click **Edit dashboard**.

10. Right-click unoccupied area of the dashboard and, in the right-click menu, click **Reset to default state**. When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**.

11. Click **Done customizing**.

12. Close all open windows.

> **Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have configured monitoring for an Azure Cloud Service with a new metric and an alert.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
