	# Lab Answer Key:  Module 11: Implementing Azure-based management and automation
# Lab: Implementing Automation
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Automation accounts
  
#### Task 1: Create an Automation account
  
1. Ensure that you are signed in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and that the **Setup-Azure** script has completed. The script creates two Azure VMs in your subscription and leaves them in the running state. You will use an Azure Automation runbook to stop them.

2. Start Internet Explorer and browse to **https://portal.azure.com**. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription. 

3. Verify that your username listed in the upper right corner of the Azure portal page includes the reference to **(DEFAULT DIRECTORY)**. If not, then click the user name and, in the DIRECTORY section of the drop down menu, select the entry containing your Microsoft Account user name followed by (Default Directory).

4. In the hub menu, click **Virtual machines**. On the **Virtual machines** blade, note **myVM0** and **myVM1** virtual machines with the running status.

5. In the hub menu, click **+ New**, and then click **Monitoring + Management**.

6. Click **Automation**.

7. On the **Automation** blade, click **Create**.

8. On the Add Automation Account blade, specify the following:


  - Name: **LabAutomationAccount**

  - Subscription: _your current subscription_

  - Resource group: _ensure that the **Create new** option is selected and type _**20533C1102-LabRG**_ in the text box_

  - Location: _an Azure region that you chose when running **Setup-Azure** or, if not available, another region close to it_

  - Create Azure Run As account: **Yes**


9. Click **Create**.

10. Wait for the Automation account to be provisioned. This should take less than a minute.


#### Task 2: Create and review Automation assets
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the Hub menu, click **More services**, and then click **Automation Accounts**. 

2. On the Automation Accounts blade, click **LabAutomationAccount**.

3. On the LabAutomationAccount blade click **Variables**.

4. Click **Add a variable**.

5. On the **New Variable** blade, specify the following and click **Create**:

  - Name: **VM0**

  - Description: **myVM0**

  - Type: **String**

  - Value: **myVM0**

  - Encrypted: **No**

6. Repeat the steps 4 and 5 to create additional two non-encrypted string variables. For each variable, specify the following name, description and value::

  - Name: **VM1**

  - Description: **myVM1**

  - Value: **myVM1**

  - Name: **ResourceGroup**

  - Description: **VM resource group**

  - Value: **20533C1101-LabRG**

7. Click  **Schedules**.

8. Click **Add a schedule**.

9. On the **New Schedule** blade, specify the following and click **Create**:

  - Name: **EndOfDay**

  - Description: **End of day**

  - Starts: _tomorrow's date at **6:00:00 PM** with the time zone of the Azure region containing the Automation account_

  - Recurrence: **Recurring**

  - Recur every: **1 Day**

  - Set expiration: **No**

10. Click **Connections**. 

11. Note two precreated connections **AzureClassicRunAsConnection** and **AzureRunAsConnection**. They were created automatically during provisioning of the Automation account since you selected the option to create the Azure Run As account.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured a new Microsoft Azure Automation account and created Automation assets.


## Exercise 2: Creating and executing runbooks
  
#### Task 1: Import a runbook
  
1. In the Azure portal, on the LabAutomationAccount blade, click **Runbooks**.

2. Click **Add a runbook**.

3. On the **Add Runbook** blade, click **Import an existing runbook**.

4. On the **Import** blade, specify the following and click **Create**:


  - Runbook file: **D:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Stop-AzureRm20533C11VMs.ps1**

  - Runbook type: **PowerShell Workflow**

  - Name: **Stop-AzureVMs-Workflow**

  - Description: **Stop Azure VMs in parallel**


5. On the Runbooks blade, click **Stop-AzureVMs-Workflow**

6. On the Stop-AzureVMs-Workflow blade, click **Edit**.

7. On the Edit PowerShell Workflow Runbook blade, review the content of the PowerShell workflow.



#### Task 2: Publish and execute a runbook
  
1. On the Edit PowerShell Workflow Runbook blade, click **Publish**.

2. When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**. You will be automatically redirected to the **Stop-AzureVMs-Workflow** blade.

3. Click **Start**.

4. When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**. You will be automatically redirected to a blade displaying the current job, with a name consisting of the combination of the runbook name and timestamp of its invocation.

5. Click **Output** tile.

6. Monitor the runbook execution. Wait until the job completes.

7. In the hub menu of the Azure portal, click **Virtual machines**. On the **Virtual machines** blade, note that the status of **myVM0** and **myVM1** virtual machines has changed to stopped.


#### Task 3: Reset the environment
  
1. Close all open applications without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Reset-Azure
  ```

4. When prompted (twice), sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want to target with the script.

6. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

> **Note:** This script will remove Azure services in your subscription. We therefore recommend that you use an Azure trial pass that was provisioned specifically for this course, and not your own Azure account.
> The script will take 5-10 minutes to reset your Microsoft Azure environment to be ready for the next lab. 
> The script removes all storage, virtual machines (VMs), virtual networks, cloud services, and resource groups.
> **Important**: The script might not be able to get exclusive access to a storage account to delete it (if this occurs, you will see an error). If you find remaining objects after the reset script is complete, you can rerun the **Reset-Azure** script, or use the Azure portal and Azure classic portal to delete all the objects in your Azure subscription manually with the exception of the default Azure AD tenant.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have imported, published, and executed a PowerShell workflow-based runbook that deploys two virtual machines in parallel.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
