# Lab Answer Key:  Module 8: Implementing PaaS cloud services
# Lab: Implementing PaaS cloud services
  
## Exercise 1: Deploying a PaaS cloud service
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure SQL Server Database for a PaaS cloud service
  
1. Ensure that the MIA-CL1 lab virtual machine is running, and then sign in as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Start Windows Internet Explorer, navigate to https://portal.azure.com, and then sign in with an account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.

3. In the Azure portal, click **+ New**. On the **New** blade, click **Databases** and then, on the **Databases** blade, click **SQL Database**.

4. On the **SQL Database** blade, set the **Database name** to **CloudServiceProdDB**. 

5. Ensure that the name of your Azure subscription appears in the **Subscription** drop down list.

6. In the **Resource group** section, ensure that **Create new** is selected and, in the textbox below, type **20533C0801-LabRG**.

7. In the **Select source** drop down list, click **Blank database**.

8. Click **Server**.

9. On the **Server** blade, click **Create a new server**. 

10. On the **New server** blade, specify the following settings and click **Select**.

- Server name: _any valid, unique name_

- Server admin login: **Student**

- Password: **Pa55w.rd**

- Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**

- Location: _the Azure region closest to the lab location_

- Allow azure services to access server: _make sure that the checkbox is enabled_

11. Back on the SQL Database blade, in the **Want to use SQL elastic pool?** section, ensure that **Not now** is selected

12. Click **Pricing tier**. 

13. On the **Configure performance** blade, click **Basic** and click **Apply**.

14. Leave the default value in the **Collation** text box, leave the **Pin to dashboard** checkbox clear, and click **Create**.

#### Task 2: Create an Azure Storage account for a PaaS cloud service
  
1. In the Azure portal, click **+ New**. On the **New** blade, click **Storage** and then, on the **Storage** blade, click **Storage account**.

2. On the **Create storage account** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

- Name: _any unique name consisting of between 3 and 24 lower case letters or digits_

- Deployment model: **Classic**

- Account kind: **General purpose**

- Performance: **Standard**

- Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

- Subscription: _the name of the Azure subscription where you created the SQL database_

- Resource group: _ensure that the **Use existing** option is selected and click **20533C0801-LabRG** in the drop-down list_

- Location: _the same location you specified in the previous task_

- Pin to dashboard: _leave the checkbox clear_


#### Task 3: Configure the service definition file
  
1. On the Taskbar, click **Visual Studio 2015**.

2. Click **File**, click **Open**, and then click **File**.

3. Browse to D:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package.

4. Click **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**, and then click **Open**.

5. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name set to **AdatumAdsWebRole**.

6. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Instances&gt;** element.

7. In the **&lt;Instances&gt;** element, set the **count** attribute to **2**.

8. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name set to **AdatumAdsWorkerRole**.

9. Within that **&lt;Role**> element, locate the **&lt;Instances&gt;** element.

10. In the **&lt;Instances&gt;** element, set the **count** attribute to **2**.

11. Switch to the Azure portal, and, in the hub menu on the left, click **More services**.

12. In the list of services, click **Storage accounts (classic)**.

13. On the **Storage accounts (classic)** blade, in the list of storage accounts, click the storage acount you created in the first task of this exercise.

14. On the storage account blace, click **Access keys**

15. Click the **Click to copy** icon next to the **CONNECTION STRING** entry for the **Primary** key. If prompted, click **Allow access**.

16. Switch to Microsoft Visual Studio.

17. In the ServiceConfigurationCloud.cscfg file, locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWebRole**.

18. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name set to **StorageConnectionString**.

19. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

20. Place the cursor between the quotation marks and then press Ctrl+V to paste the storage connection string you copied from the Azure portal.

21. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWorkerRole**.

22. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name **StorageConnectionString**.

23. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

24. Place the cursor between the quotation marks and then press Ctrl+V to paste the storage connection string you copied from the Azure portal.

25. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWebRole**.

26. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name set to **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Plugins.Diagnostics.ConnectionString**.

27. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

28. Place the cursor between the quotation marks and then press Ctrl+V to paste the storage connection string you copied from the Azure portal.

29. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWorkerRole**.

30. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name set to **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Plugins.Diagnostics.ConnectionString**.

31. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

32. Place the cursor between the quotation marks and then press Ctrl+V to paste the storage connection string you copied from the Azure portal.

33. Switch to the Internet Explorer window displaying the Azure portal.

34. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left, click **More services**.

35. In the list of services, click **SQL databases**.

36. On the **SQL databases** blade, in the list of SQL databases, click **CloudServiceProdDB**.

37. On the CloudServiceProdDB blade, in the **Essentials** section, click **Show database connection strings.**

38. On the **Database connection strings** blade, ensure that the **ADO.NET** tab is selected, select the entire connection string below, right-click on the selection, and click **Copy** in the right-click menu.

39. Switch back to Visual Studio.

40. Locate the **&lt;Role&gt;** element with the name **AdatumAdsWorkerRole**.

41. Within that **&lt;Role&gt;** element, locate the **&lt;Setting&gt;** element with the name set to **AdatumAdsDbConnectionString**.

42. Delete the string in the **value** attribute, leaving the leading and trailing quotation marks.

43. Press Ctrl+V to paste the connection string you copied to the Clipboard.

44. In the connection string you just pasted, locate the text **{your_username}**.

45. Delete the located text, and then replace it with **Student**.

46. In the connection string you just pasted, locate the text **{your_password}**.

47. Delete the located text, and then replace it with **Pa55w.rd**.

48. Click **File**, and then click **Save ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**.



#### Task 4: Deploy an PaaS cloud service
  
1. In the Azure portal, click **+ New**. On the **New** blade, click **Compute** and then, on the **Compute** blade, click **Cloud service**.

2. On the **Cloud service (classic)** blade, specify the following settings:

- DNS name: _any valid, unique name_

- Subscription: _the name of the Azure subscription you have been using for this lab_

- Resource group: _ensure that the **Use existing** option is selected and click **20533C0801-LabRG** in the drop-down list_

- Location: _the same location you have been using in this lab_

3. Click **Package (Optional) Select a package**. 

4. On the **Upload a package** blade, ensure that the storage account you created in the second task of this exercise appears in the **Storage account** section.

5. In the **Deployment label** textbox, type **AdatumAdsProd**.

6. Set the **Package/configuration location** option to **from local**.
 
7. Next to the **Package (.cspkg, .zip)** text box, click the folder icon.

8. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to D:\LabFiles\Lab08\Starter\Production\Package.

9. Click **AdatumAds.cspkg**, and then click **Open**.

10. Wait until the package is fully uploaded.

11. Next to the **Configuration (.cscfg)** box, click the folder icon.

12. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to D:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package.

13. Click **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**, and then click **Open**.

14. Wait until the configuration file is fully uploaded.

15. Ensure that **Environment** switch is set to **Production** and that the **Start deployment** checkbox is enabled.

16. Click **OK**.

17. Back on the **Cloud service (classic)** blade, leave the **Certificates** section and the **Pin to dashboard** checkbox with their default values and click **Create**.

> **Note:** Wait for the deployment to complete. This might take a few minutes. 

> **Result**: You created a storage account and a SQL database, edited the service configuration file, and deployed the cloud service to the production slot.



## Exercise 2: Configuring deployment slots and RDP
  
#### Task 1: Perform a staged deployment of a PaaS cloud service
  
1. In the Azure portal in the Internet Explorer window, in the Hub menu, click **More services** and then click **Cloud services (classic)**.

2. In the **Cloud services (classic)** blade, click the cloud service you created in the prevous task.

3. On the **Overview** page of the cloud service, click **Production slot** in the toolbar and then click **Staging** in the drop-down list.

2. Click **Upload** in the toolbar.

3. On the **Upload a package** blade, click **Storage account**

4. On the **Choose storage account** blade, click the storage account you created in the previous exercise.

5. In the **Deployment label** text box, type **AdatumAdsStage**.

6. Set the **Package/configuration location** option to **from local**.

7. Next to the **Package (.cspkg, .zip)** text box, click the folder icon.

8. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to D:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Staging\\Package.

9. Click **AdatumAds.cspkg**, and then click **Open**.

10. Wait until the package is fully uploaded.

11. Next to the **Configuration (.cscfg)** box, click the folder icon.

12. In the **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to D:\\LabFiles\\Lab08\\Starter\\Production\\Package.

13. Click **ServiceConfiguration.Cloud.cscfg**, and then click **Open**.

14. Wait until the configuration file is fully uploaded.

15. Ensure that the **Start deployment** checkbox is enabled.

16. Click **OK**.

> **Note:** Wait for the deployment to complete. This might take a few minutes. You can monitor the progress in the **Roles and instances** section of the staging blade.


#### Task 2: Configure RDP access


1. On MIA-CLI, on the Taskbar, right-click the **Windows PowerShell** icon and, in the right-click menu, click **Run as Administrator**. If prompted by the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

2. At the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell**, type `Add-AzureAccount` and press the Enter key. If prompted whether to enable data collection, type **N**.

3. When prompted to authenticate, sign in with an account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.

4. Once you authenticate, the output of the cmdlet you executed will list subscriptions that your account is associated with. If there are multiple subscriptions, execute the following cmdlet:

  ```
  Select-AzureSubscription -SubscriptionId 'Your-subscription-Id'
  ```
 where `Your-subscription-Id` designates the subscription ID to which you deployed the cloud service earlier in this lab

5. Next, execute the following script by typing each of the following commands at the Windows PowerShell prompt and pressing Enter:
  ```
  $serviceName = 'Your-cloud-service'

  $userName = 'Student'

  $securePassword = 'Pa55w.rd1234' | ConvertTo-SecureString -AsPlainText -Force

  $expirationDate = $(Get-Date).AddDays(31)

  $credential = New-Object System.Management.Automation.PSCredential $userName,$securePassword

  Set-AzureServiceRemoteDesktopExtension -ServiceName $serviceName -Credential $credential -Expiration $expirationDate -Slot Production

  Set-AzureServiceRemoteDesktopExtension -ServiceName $serviceName -Credential $credential -Expiration $expirationDate -Slot Staging
  ```

 where `Your-cloud-service` designates the name of the cloud service you deployed earlier in this lab
  

#### Task 3: Test connectivity

1. In the Azure portal in the Internet Explorer window, in the cloud service blade, with the **Overview** page open, ensure that **Production slot** appears in the toolbar and click the hyperlink under the **Site URL** label. The cloud service home page opens in a new Internet Explorer tab. You might need to refresh the Internet Explorer page to update the value of **Site URL**.

2. Leave the new Internet Explorer tab open. You will use it in the next exercise.

3. Switch back to the Azure portal. In the cloud service blade, with the **Overview** page open, click **Production slot** in the toolbar and then click **Staging** in the drop-down menu.

4. Click the hyperlink under the **Site URL** label. The cloud service home page opens in a new Internet Explorer tab. Note that the staging web site is different from the production one.

5. Close the new Internet Explorer tab.

6. Switch back to the Azure portal. In the cloud service blade, with the **Overview** page open, click **Staging slot** in the toolbar and then click **Production** in the drop-down menu.

7. In the cloud service blade, click **Roles and Instances**.

8. Click **AdatumAdsWebRole_IN_0**.

9. On the **AdatumAdsWebRole_IN_0** blade, click **Connect**.

10. When prompted whether to open or save the **AdatumAdsWebRole_IN_0.rdp**, click **Open**.

11. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, click **Connect**.

12. When prompted to authenticate, ensure that the user name is set to **Student**, type **Pa55w.rd1234** as the password, and click **OK**.

13. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, click **Yes**. The Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) client displays the desktop for the first instance of the web role.

13. Close the remote desktop connection. 

14. In the Remote Desktop Connection window, click **OK**.


> **Result**: At the end of this exercise you have performed a staging deployment of a PaaS cloud service, enable RDP access to a PaaS cloud service, and connected to cloud service instances via HTTP and via RDP.



## Exercise 3: Monitoring cloud services
  
#### Task 1: Add metrics to the cloud service monitoring
  
1. In the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, on the **Overview** page of the cloud service you created in the first exercise, ensure that **Production slot** appears in the toolbar and click the **Monitoring** pane.

2. On the **Metric** blade, click **Edit chart**.

3. Ensure that **AdatumAdsWebRole** appears above the list of metrics, clear the **CPU percentage** checkbox, click the **Network In** checkbox, and click **OK**.



#### Task 2: Create an alert for a cloud service
  
1. Back on the **Metric** blade, click **Add alert**.

2. On the **Add an alert** blade, specify the following and click **OK**:

- Resource: _leave at its default value_

- Name: **Network In Alert**

- Description: **Test network in alert**

- Metric: **Network In**

- Condition: **greater than**
	
- Threshold: **1**

- Period: **Over the last 5 minutes**

- Email owners, contributors, and readers: _enable the checkbox_

- Additional administrator email(s): _type the email address of the Service Administrator account of your Azure subscription_

- Webhook: _leave the textbox clear_

3. Switch to the Internet Explorer tab showing the **Production** deployment of the cloud service. Refresh the page several times.

> **Note:** It will take over 5 minutes before the alert is triggered.


#### Task 3: Monitor a cloud service
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left, click **Monitor**.

2. On the **Monitor** blade, click **Alerts**

3. In the list of alerts, note the **Network In Alert** entry and identify the value in the **LAST FIRED** column.

3. Open a new Internet Explorer tab.

4. In the address bar, type **www.hotmail.com** and then press Enter.

5. If you are prompted to sign in, type the user name and password of the Microsoft Account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 

6. In the list of emails, click **Microsoft Azure Alerts**.

7. Inspect the details of the alert.

8. Close Internet Explorer.


#### Task 4: Reset the environment
  
1. Close all open applications without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as Administrator**. If prompted by the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and then press Enter.

  ```
  Reset-Azure
  ```

4. When prompted (twice), sign in by using the Microsoft account associated with your Azure subscription (twice).

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

6. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

> **Note:** This script removes Azure services from your subscription. It is therefore recommended that you use an Azure trial pass that was provisioned specifically for this course and not your own Azure account.
>  The script takes 5-10 minutes to reset your Microsoft Azure environment so that it is ready for the next lab. The script removes all storage, virtual machines, virtual networks (VNETs), cloud services, and resource groups.
> **Important**: The script might not be able to get exclusive access to a storage account to delete it. (If this occurs, you will see an error.) If you find objects remaining after the reset script is complete, you can rerun `Reset-Azure` or use the Azure portal and the Azure portal to manually delete all the objects in your Azure subscription with the exception of the default directory.

> **Result**: At the end of this exercise, you will have configured monitoring for a PaaS cloud service with a new metric and an alert.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
