# Lab Answer Key:  Module 7: Planning and implementing Azure SQL Database
# Lab: Planning and implementing Azure SQL Database
  
## Exercise 1: Creating, securing, and monitoring an Azure SQL Database
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure SQL Database
  
1. Sign in to the MIA-CL1 lab virtual machine as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Start Internet Explorer, browse to **https://portal.azure.com**, and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Subscription Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.

3. In the Hub menu on the left, click **New**, click **Databases**, and then click **SQL Database**.

4. On the **SQL database** blade, in the **Database name** box, type **operations**.

5. In the **Subscription** drop down list, click the name of the Azure subscription you will be using for this lab.

6. On the **SQL database** blade, click **Create new** in the **Resource group** section and then, in the text box below, type **20533C0701-LabRG**.

7. Ensure that **Blank database** appears in the **Select source** drop-down list.

8. Click **Server**, and then, on the **New server** blade, enter the following settings and then click **Select**:


  - Server name: _any valid unique name_

  - Server admin login: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

  - Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**

  - Location: _the Azure region closest to your location_

  - Allow azure services to access server: Enabled


9. Ensure that the **Not now** option is selected in the **Want to use SQL elastic pool?** section.

10. Click **Pricing tier**. 

11. On the **Configure performance** blade, click **Basic** and then click **Apply**.

12. Back on the **SQL database** blade, accept the default value of the **Collation** setting.

13. Enable the **Pin to dashboard** checkbox and click **Create**. Then wait for the SQL Database to be created.



#### Task 2: Configure server firewall rules
  
1. In the Internet Explorer window, in the Azure portal, in the Hub menu, click **More services** and then, in the list of services, click **SQL databases**. 

2. On the **SQL databases** blade, click **operations**.

3. On the **Overview** page of the **operations** blade, click **Set server firewall**.

4. On the **Firewall settings** blade, note the value of the **Client IP address** entry.

5. On the **Firewall settings** blade, specify the following and click **Save**:


  - RULE NAME: **AllowLabVM**

  - START IP: **_XXX.XXX._0.0**

  - END IP: **_XXX_._XXX._255.255**

**Note:** where **_XXX_._XXX._** represents the first two octets of the value of the **Client IP address** entry.


#### Task 3: Use SQL Server Management Studio
  
1. On MIA-CL1, right click **SQL Server Management Studio** icon in the taskbar, in the right-click menu, click **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** and then click **Run as administrator**. When prompted, in the **User account control** dialog box, click **Yes**. If prompted by the message **Microsoft (R) Visual Studio Isolated Shell has been changed. Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio settings need to be reset for compatibility**, click **OK**. 

2. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, specify the following settings (replacing **_server_name_** with the unique name you specified when creating your Azure SQL Database server), and click **Connect**:


  - Server type: **Database Engine**

  - Server name: **_server_name_.database.windows.net**

  - Authentication: **SQL Server Authentication**

  - Login: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**


3. In SQL Server Management Studio, in the Object Explorer, under the server name expand **Databases**, and verify that the **operations** database appears in the list of databases.

4. In SQL Server Management Studio, click **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **File**.

5. In the **Open File** dialog box, browse to the D:\\Labfiles\\Lab07\\Starter folder, click the **Operations.sql** file and click **Open**. Review the Transact-SQL code it contains.

6. In the toolbar, in the drop-down list of availabile databases, click **operations**. Click **Execute**

7. Click **New Query** and enter the following Transact-SQL code in the new query pane:

  ```
  SELECT * FROM dbo.serverlist;
  ```

8. In the toolbar, in the drop-down list of availabile databases, ensure that **operations** is selected and click **Execute**.

9. View the query results and verify that a list of three servers and their IP addresses is returned.

10. Keep SQL Server Management Studio and Internet Explorer open.



#### Task 4: View database metrics
  
1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, scroll back to the **operations** SQL Database blade.

2. On the **operations** blade, note the charts displayed in the **Monitoring** section, which show resource utilization in terms of DTU percentage.

3. Click **Edit** in the **Resource utilization** chart.

4. On the **Edit** blade, click the **Database size percentage ** checkbox and then click **OK**.

5. Click the chart. This will display the **Metric** blade.

6. On the **Metric** blade, click **Add alert**. 

7. On the **Add an alert rule** blade, specify the following settings and click **OK**:


  - Resource: _leave the default setting in place_

  - Name: **operations storage alert**

  - Description: **storage alert for operations database**

  - Metric: **Database size percentage**

  - Condition: **greater than**

  - Threshold: **60**

  - Period: **over the last 5 minutes**

  - Email owners, contributors, and readers: _select the checkbox_

  - Additional administrator email(s): _type any email address_

  - Webhook: _leave blank_


8. Keep Internet Explorer open for the next exercise


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created an Azure SQL Database named operations on a new server with a name of your choosing. You should also have used SQL Server Management Studio to create a table named dbo.serverlist and created an alert to help you monitor database storage.


## Exercise 2: Migrating a Microsoft SQL Server Database to Azure SQL Database
  
#### Task 1: Deploy a database to Azure
  
1. In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, click **Connect** and, in the **Connect** drop-down list, click **Database Engine**.

2. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, specify the following settings, and click **Connect**:


  - Server type: **Database Engine**

  - Server name: **MIA-CL1**

  - Authentication: **Windows Authentication**


3. In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, under the **MIA-CL1** server, expand **Databases** and verify that the **sales** database is listed.

4. Right-click the **sales** database, point to **Tasks**, and then click **Deploy Database to Microsoft Azure SQL Database**.

5. In the **Deploy Database 'sales'** wizard, on the **Introduction** page, click **Next**.

6. On the **Deployment Settings** page, click **Connect**. Then in the **Connect to Server** dialog box, specify the following settings (replacing **_server_name_** with the unique name of your SQL Database server) and click **Connect**:


  - Server type: **Database Engine**

  - Server name: **_server_name_.database.windows.net**

  - Authentication: **SQL Server Authentication**

  - Login: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**


7. On the **Deployment Settings** page, ensure that the new database name is **sales**, note the temporary file name used for the .bacpac file that will be exported and imported, ensure that the **Edition of Microsoft Azure SQL Database** is set to **Basic**, and then click **Next**.

8. On the **Summary** page, click **Finish**.

9. On the **Results** page, verify that the operation completed successfully, and click **Close**.

10. In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, if necessary, right-click the **Databases** folder under your Azure SQL Database server and click **Refresh** to verify that the sales database has been copied to this server.



#### Task 2: Configure SQL Database security
  
1. In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, under your Azure SQL Database server, expand **Security**, expand **Logins**, and verify that only the **Student** login is listed.

2. Right-click **Logins** and click **New Login**. Then, replace the auto-generated Transact-SQL script with the one shown here and then click **Execute**:

  ```
  CREATE LOGIN SalesApp
WITH PASSWORD = 'Pa55w.rd'
GO
  ```

3. In Object Explorer, right-click the **Logins** folder and click **Refresh** to verify that the **SalesApp** login has been created.

4. In Object Explorer, in the **Databases** folder for your Azure SQL Database server, expand the **sales** database, expand **Security**, and expand **Users**. 

5. Right-click **Users** and click **New User**. Then, replace the auto-generated Transact-SQL script with the one shown below and then click **Execute**:

  ```
  CREATE USER SalesApp
FOR LOGIN SalesApp
WITH DEFAULT_SCHEMA = dbo
GO
EXEC sp_addrolemember 'db_owner', 'SalesApp'
GO
  ```

6. In Object Explorer, right-click the **Users** folder and click **Refresh** to verify that the **SalesApp** user has been created.

7. Keep SQL Server Management Studio open for the next exercise.



#### Task 3: Configure an application connection string
  
1. Start Visual Studio, click **File**, click **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**. 

2. In the **Open Project** dialog box, navigate to the D:\\Labfiles\\Lab07\\Starter folder, click **SalesApp.sln** and click **Open**. If prompted, in the **Security Warning for SalesApp** dialog box, click **OK**.

3. In Solution Explorer, click **Web.config**.

4. In Web.config, note that the **SalesConnectionString** element contains the **connectionString** attribute that connects to the **sales** database on the **localhost** server using integrated security (Windows authentication).

5. Switch to the Internet Explorer window. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **More services** and then, in the list of services, click **SQL databases**. 

6. On the **SQL databases** blade, click the **sales** database.

7. On the **sales** blade, click **Show database connection strings**. 

8. On the **Database connection strings** blade, on the **ADO.NET** tab, select the connection string, right-click the selection, and click **Copy**.

9. Minimize the Internet Explorer window.

10. In Visual Studio, in Web.config, select the existing value of the **connectionString** attribute and then paste the connection string you copied to replace it.

11. In the connection string you just pasted into Web.config, set the value of the **User ID** parameter to **SalesApp@ _server_name_** (where **_server_name_** is the unique name of your Azure SQL Database server) by replacing the **{your_username}** placeholder. Next, set the value of the Password parameter to **Pa55w.rd** by replacing the **{your_password}** placeholder. The new connectionString value should look similar to this (on a single line):

  ```
  Server=tcp:server_name.database.windows.net,
1433;Database=sales; User ID=SalesApp@_server_name_;
Password=Pa55w.rd;Encrypt=True;
TrustServerCertificate=False;
Connection Timeout=30;
  ```

11. Save Web.config. Then on the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**. This will open a Microsoft Edge window showing the **Customer Invoice History** page.

12. When Microsoft Edge opens, verify that the sales application shows invoice history data for the selected customer. The data is retrieved from the sales database you migrated to Microsoft Azure SQL Database.

13. Close the Microsoft Edge window that shows the **Customer Invoice History** page and then close Visual Studio without saving any changes.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have deployed the sales SQL Server database on the local SQL Server instance to your Azure SQL Database server, and configured the SalesApp web application to use a connection string pointing to the new Azure SQL Database.


## Exercise 3: Restoring a database
  
#### Task 1: Delete a database
  
1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure Portal, in the Hub menu, click **More services**, and then click **SQL databases**. 

2. On the **SQL databases** blade, click the **operations** database.

3. On the **operations** blade, click **Restore**.

4. On the **Restore** blade, verify that a restore point is available. If not, wait until that is the case.

5. Scroll back to the **operations** blade and click **Delete**.

6. When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**.

7. In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, under your Azure SQL Database server, right-click the  **Databases** folder and click **Refresh** to verify that the **operations** database is no longer present on the server.



#### Task 2: Restore a deleted database
  
1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure Portal, in the Hub menu, click **More services**, and then click **SQL servers**. 

2. On the **SQL servers** blade, click the entry representing the SQL server you created in this lab.

3. On the server blade, on the **Overview** page, click **+New database**

4. On the **SQL database** blade, in the **Database name** box, type **operations**.

5. In the **Select source** drop-down list, click **Backup**.

6. Click **Backup - Configure required settings**.

7. On the **Backups** blade, click **operations**.

8. Accept the remaining settings with their default values and click **OK**. Wait for the operation to complete by monitoring the notification area (this can take several minutes).

9. In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, under your Azure SQL Database server, right-click the **Databases** folder and click **Refresh** to verify that the operations database has been restored.

10 In SQL Server Management Studio, click **New Query** and enter the following Transact-SQL code in the new query pane:

  ```
  SELECT * FROM dbo.serverlist
  ```

11. On the toolbar, in the drop-down list of availabile databases, ensure that **operations** is selected and then click **Execute**.

12. View the query results and verify that a list of three servers and their IP addresses is returned.



#### Task 3: Reset the environment
  
1. Close all open applications without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Reset-Azure
  ```

4. When prompted (twice), sign in by using the Microsoft account that is either the Subscription Administrator or a Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want to target by the script.

6. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

> **Note:** This script will remove Azure resources in your subscription. We, therefore, recommend that you use an Azure trial pass that was provisioned specifically for this course, and not your own Azure subscription.
> The script will take 5-10 minutes to reset your Microsoft Azure environment, preparing it for the next lab. 
> The script removes all storage, VMs, virtual networks, cloud services, SQL databases and servers, and resource groups

 **Important**: The script might not be able to get exclusive access to a storage account to delete it (if this occurs, you will see an error). If you find objects remaining after the reset script is complete, you can re-run the **Reset-Azure** script, or use the Azure portal to manually delete all the objects in your Azure subscription with the exception of the Default Directory.


#### Task 4: To prepare for the next module
  
 Leave the virtual machines running for the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have deleted and restored the operations database.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
