# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Introduction to Microsoft Azure
# Lab: Managing Microsoft Azure
  
## Exercise 1: Using the Azure portals
  
#### Task 1: Use the Azure classic portal
  
1. Sign in to the MIA-CL1 lab virtual machine as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Start Internet Explorer, browse to **https://manage.windowsazure.com**, and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

3. On the Azure classic portal page, in the navigation bar on the left hand side, scroll down, and then click **SETTINGS**.

4. On the settings page, click **ADMINISTRATORS**, and then at the bottom of the pane, click **ADD**.

5. In the **EMAIL ADDRESS** box, type a valid Microsoft account, select the check box next to your subscription name, and then click the check mark icon.

6. On the Azure classic portal page, in the navigation bar, click **ACTIVE DIRECTORY**.

7. In the active directory pane, click **Default Directory**. This is the default Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) instance for your subscription

8. If prompted, on the **Let’s talk about Azure AD** page, deselect all checkboxes and then click the checkmark at the bottom of the page.

9. On the **default directory** page, click **USERS**. Note the two accounts that are listed: your account and the co-administrator account you created earlier.

10. On the **default directory** page, click **DOMAINS**. Note the name of the default domain for your subscription displayed on the **default directory** page.

#### Task 2: Use the Azure portal

1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure classic portal, at the top of the screen, click **Check out the new portal**, and then click **Launch**. If you do not have the Azure classic portal open, go to **https://portal.azure.com**.

2. On the **Dashboard** page, at the top of the screen, click **Edit dashboard**.

3. On the **Dashboard** page, on the **All resources** tile, click the **ellipses (…)**, click **Customize**, and then click **4x6**.

4. On the **Dashboard** page, on the **Azure health** tile, click the **ellipses (…)**, click **Customize**, and then click **4x4**.

5. Drag the **Azure health** tile up to the top of the dashboard until its top edge aligns with the top edge of the **All resources** tile.

6. On the **Dashboard** page, rearrange the remaining tiles by moving them to the left and, at the top of the screen, click **Done customizing**.

7. On the **Dashboard** page, in the **Hub** menu, click **More services**, and then click the star beside **Virtual machine scale sets**

#### Task 3: Use the Azure account portal
  
1. Start Internet Explorer, browse to **https://account.windowsazure.com**

2. On the Account page, click **SIGN IN** and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Account Administrator of your Azure subscription.

3. On the Account portal page, on the **subscriptions** tab, click the name of your subscription. 

4. On the summary page, review the billing summary for your subscription on the page.

5. On the summary page, on the right side of the screen, click **Download usage details**.

6. Click **Download Usage** and then click **Version 2 - Preview**.

7. In Internet Explorer, when prompted whether to open or save the .csv file, click Open.

8. When prompted **How do you want to open this file?**, click **Notepad** and then click **OK**.

9. View the contents of the file in Notepad. Note that this is intended to simply review its content – typically to analyze it in more details, you would use Microsoft Excel or other program capable of parsing csv files. The file might not include any data at this point if you have not yet deployed any resources into your subscription.

10. Close Notepad.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have used the Azure portals.


## Exercise 2: Using the Azure Resource Manager features in the Azure portal
  
#### Task 1: Create and manage a resource group

1. In Internet Explorer, browse to **https://portal.azure.com**. If prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator or Co-Administrator of your Azure subscription.

2. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu on the left hand side, click **Resource groups**.

3. On the Resource groups blade, click **Add**.

4. On the Resource groups blade, type the following values, and then click **Create**:

  - Resource group name: **20533C0101-LabRG**

  - Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription

  - Resource group location: the Azure region closest to your location

#### Task 2: Create Azure resources

1. In the Azure portal, click **New**, click **Networking**, and then click **Route table**.

2. On the **Route table** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

  - Name: **AdatumRT01**

  - Subscription: the same Azure subscription in which you created the resource group

  - Resource group name: click **Use existing** and select **20533C0101-LabRG** from the drop-down list

  - Resource group location: this entry will be automatically populated once you select the resource group name


#### Task 3: Configure tagging

1. In the Azure portal, on the hub menu, click **Resource groups**.

2. On the Resource groups blade, click **20533C0101-LabRG**, and then, on the resource group blade, click **Tags**.

3. On the Tags blade, in the **Key** box, type **project**, and then in the **Value** box, type **test**. Click **Save**.

4. Click **Overview** and, on the resource group blade, click the Route table resource you created in the previous task.

5. On the AdatumRT01 blade, click **Tags**. 

6. On the AdatumRT01 tags blade, in the **Key** text box, select **project** from the drop-down list, and then in the **Value** drop-down list, select **test**. Click **Save**.

7. In the hub menu, click **More services** and, in the list of services, click **Tags**

8. On the **tags** blade, click **project : test**. This will display the **project : test** blade showing both the resource group and the route table resource you created.

9. click the ellipses **(…)** next to **project : test**, and then click **Pin to dashboard**.

10. In the Azure portal, in the upper left corner, click **Microsoft Azure** to display **Dashboard**.

11. On the Dashboard, click the **project : test** tile. View again the resources associated with this tag.

#### Task 4: Configure RBAC
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click the cube icon representing resource groups.

2. On the **Resource group** blade, click **20533C0101-LabRG**.

3. On the 20533C0101-LabRG resource group blade, click **Access control (IAM)**.

4. On the access control (IAM) blade of the resource group, click **Add**.

5. On the **Add permissions** blade, in the Role drop-down list, click **Owner**.

6. On the **Add permissions** blade, click the name of the user you added earlier as a Co-Administrators of your subscription and click **Save**. Note that, once the change is saved, the user is listed as the owner.

7. Start Internet Explorer, browse to **https://manage.windowsazure.com**, and, if prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

8. On the Azure classic portal page, in the navigation bar, scroll down, and then click **SETTINGS**.

9. On the settings page, click **ADMINISTRATORS**.

10. Click the Microsoft account you added in the first exercise of this lab as a Co-Administrator and then, at the bottom of the pane, click **REMOVE**.

11. When prompted to confirm, click **YES** 

>  Note that in this particular case, the account you are using is already a co-administrator, which is not a subject to RBAC. Revoking the Co-Administrator privileges from the account will allow for RBAC to take effect. Revoking the Co-Administrator privileges does not remove the account from the Azure AD tenant associated with your subscription.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have used the Azure Resource Manager features in the Azure portal.


## Exercise 3: Using Azure PowerShell
  
#### Task 1: Connect Azure PowerShell to your Azure subscription
  
1. On MIA-CL1, right-click the Windows PowerShell icon and then click **Run ISE as Administrator**. When prompted by User Account Control for confirmation, click **Yes**.

2. In the Windows PowerShell Integrated Scripting Environment (ISE), in the console pane, type the following cmdlet and then press Enter:
  ```
Login-AzureRmAccount
  ```

3. In the sign-in windows that appears, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

4. In the Windows PowerShell ISE window, in the console pane, type the following cmdlet and then press Enter:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmSubscription
  ```

5. In the Windows PowerShell ISE window, in the console pane, type the following cmdlet and then press Enter:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmResourceProvider
  ```

6. Examine the output, including Azure resource providers, resource types, and the Azure regions where these resources are available.

#### Task 2: Manage Azure resources and resource groups by using Azure PowerShell

1. In the Windows PowerShell ISE window, open the D:\\Labfiles\\Lab01\\Starter\\Start-AzureRm20553C01Lab.ps1 file.

2. In the **# Variables** section, note the values of predefined variables. They need to match the names of resource and the resource group you created in the previous exercise.

3. Under the line that states **# Identify the location of the resource group containing the resource**, type the following:
  ```
  $locName = (Get-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name $rg1Name).Location
  ```

4. Select all of code in the file, including the line you just typed, right-click it, and then click **Run selection**.

5. Under the line that states **# Create a new resource group in the same location**, type the following:
  ```
  $rg2 = New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name $rg2Name -Location $locName
  ```

6. Select the line you just typed, right-click it, and then click **Run selection**.

7. Under the line that states **# Retrieve an object representing the resource and store it in a variable**, type the following:
  ```
  $res = Get-AzureRmResource -ResourceName $resName -ResourceGroupName $rg1Name
  ```

8. Select the line you just typed, right-click it, and then click **Run selection**.

9. Under the line that states **# Move the resource to the new resource group**, type the following:
  ```
  Move-AzureRmResource -DestinationResourceGroupName $rg2Name -ResourceId $res.ResourceId
  ```

10. Select the line you just typed, right-click it, and then click **Run selection**.

11. Under the line that states **# View resources in the new resource group**, type the following:
  ```
  Get-AzureRmResource | Where-Object ResourceGroupName -eq $rg2Name
  ```

12. Select the line you just typed, right-click it, and then click **Run selection**.

#### Task 3: 

1. Close all open apps without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click Windows PowerShell, and then click **Run as Administrator**. In the User Account Control dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and then press **Enter**:
  ```
  Reset-Azure
  ```

4. When prompted (twice), sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

6. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have used Azure PowerShell to manage Azure resources and resource groups.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
