# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Planning and implementing storage, backup, and recovery services
# Lab: Planning and implementing Azure Storage
  
## Exercise 1: Creating and configuring Azure Storage
  
#### Task 1: Create a storage account
  
1. Ensure that you are signed in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd** and that the setup script that you ran in the previous demonstration to prepare the environment has completed.

2. Start Microsoft Edge, and then browse to [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com). When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Microsoft Azure subscription.

3. In the hub menu, click **+ Create resource**, and then click **Storage**.

4. On the **Storage** blade, click **Storage account - blob, file, table, queue**.

5. On the Create storage account blade, apply the following settings, and then click **Create**:

  - Name: a valid, unique name consisting of between 3 and 24 lower case characters or digits

  - Deployment model: **Resource Manager**

  - Account kind: **Storage (general purpose v1)**

  - Performance: **Standard**

  - Replication: **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**

  - Secure transfer required: **Disabled**

  - Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription

  - Resource group: ensure that **Create new** is selected and, in the textbox below, type **20533D0602-LabRG**.

  - Location: the same Azure region that you chose when running the provisioning script at the beginning of this module

  - Virtual networks (Preview): **Disabled**

  - Pin to dashboard: clear the check box

6. Wait until the storage account is provisioned.

7. In the hub menu, click **All services**, and then, in the list of services, click **Storage accounts**.

8. On the **Storage accounts** blade, click the storage account that you just created.

9. On the storage account blade, click the **Blobs** tile.

10. On the **Blob service** blade, click **+ Container** in the toolbar.

11. In the **New container** section, specify the following settings, and then click **OK**:

  - Name: **asset-images**

  - Access type: **Private (no anonymous access)**


#### Task 2: Install AzCopy
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, open a new tab, and then browse to [**http://aka.ms/AzCopy**](http://aka.ms/AzCopy).

2. In the **Download and install AzCopy** section, click the **latest version of AzCopy on Windows** link.

3. When prompted, click **Save**. Wait until the download completes and then click **Run**. This will automatically launch the setup wizard. Use the wizard to install AzCopy with the default settings. During the setup, when prompted, in the User Account Control dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run ISE as Administrator**. When prompted, in the User Account Control dialog box, click **Yes**.

5. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, if the script pane is not visible, click **View** and then, in the **View** menu, click **Show Script Pane**.

6. In the script pane, type **`Set-Location -Path 'C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SDKs\Azure\AzCopy'`** and then press the **F5** key.

6. In the console pane, type **`.\AzCopy /?`** and then press Enter.

7. Scroll through the syntax information displayed in the console pane. 


#### Task 3: Use AzCopy to upload blobs
  
1. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, in the script pane, type:

  ```
  .\AzCopy.exe /Dest:https://<storage-account-name>.blob.core.windows.net/asset-images /destkey:<access-key> /Source:E:\Labfiles\Lab06\Starter\asset-images
  ```

2. Switch to the Microsoft Edge window displaying the Azure portal, scroll back to the blade for your storage account, and click **Access keys**.

3. On the access keys blade, click the **Click to copy** icon next to **Storage account name**. If prompted to allow access to Clipboard, click **Allow access**.

4. Switch to the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window and replace the **`<storage-account-name>`** entry with the content of Clipboard.

5. Switch to the Microsoft Edge window and, on the access keys blade, click the **Click to copy** icon next to **key1**. 

6. Switch to the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window and replace the **`<access-key>`** entry with the content of Clipboard.

7. Press the **F5** key to execute the command in the script pane.

> **Note**: If you execute the command and it fails, make note of the error message and the directory in which the journal files are located.  Temporary data files are put into the journal file folder with the default path **"%LocalAppData%\Microsoft\Azure\AzCopy"** and need to be deleted before running the command again.

8. Examine the output in the console pane and verify that the content of the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter\\asset-images** folder was copied to the Azure Storage account container **asset-images**.

9. In the Azure portal, on the storage account blade, click **Overview**.

10. In the **Services** section of the blade, click the **Blobs** tile.

11. On the **Blob service** blade, click the **asset-images** container.

12. On the **asset-images** blade, verify that there are six new blobs.

> **Result**: At the end of this exercise, you should have created a new Azure storage account with a container named **asset-images** and copied files from your local computer to that container by using the **AzCopy** utility.


## Exercise 2: Using Azure File storage
  
#### Task 1: Create a file share and upload files
  
1. Switch to the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window.

2. In the Windows PowerShell Integrated Scripting Environment (ISE), in the console pane, type the following cmdlet and then press Enter:

  ```
  Add-AzureRmAccount
  ```

3. In the sign-in windows that appears, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

4. If you have multiple subscriptions associated with your Microsoft account, to identify the subscription in which you are going to create a virtual network, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-AzureRmSubscription
  ```

5. Note the value of the **`Id`** property for each subscription in the output of the previous command. To specify the subscription in which you are going to create a virtual network, type the following commands, and then press Enter (replace **`SubscriptionId`** with the actual SubscriptionId property of that subscription):

  ```
  Set-AzureRmContext -SubscriptionId 'SubscriptionId'
  ```

6. Click **File**, and then click **Open**.

7. In the **Open** dialog box, browse to E:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter\\, click **New-20533D06FileShare.ps1**, and then click **Open**.

8. In the script pane, in the **$storageAccountName** variable declaration at the beginning, replace the **`<storage-account-name>`** value with the name of the Azure storage account that you created in the previous exercise.

9. Review the script, noting that it:

  - Sets the values of variables named **$shareName** and **$directoryName** for the file share and the directory to create in the Azure Storage account
	
  - Uses the **Get-AzureRmStorageAccountKey** cmdlet to retrieve the access key for your storage account.

  - Uses the **New-AzureStorageContext** cmdlet to create a security context for connections to the target storage account based on the key you retrieved

  - Uses the **New-AzureStorageShare** cmdlet to create an Azure Storage account file share

  - Uses the **New-AzureStorageDirectory** cmdlet to create a directory in the share

  - Sets the location of the folder hosting source files to be copied to the Azure Storage file share directory

  - Loops through the files in the source folder and uses the **Set-AzureStorageFileContent** cmdlet to copy each of them the folder in the Azure file share.

10. Save the script and then press the **F5** key.

11. Observe the script as it runs, and then view the output. When you finish, close Windows PowerShell ISE.



#### Task 2: Access a file share from an Azure VM
  
1. From the MIA-CL1 lab VM, in Microsoft Edge, on the Azure portal, click **All services**, click **Virtual machines**.

2. On the **Virtual machines** blade, click ellipsis to the right of the **20533D0601-vm1** entry and click **Connect**.

3. When prompted, click **Save** and then click **Open**.

4. If a Remote Desktop Connection warning message displays, select **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer**, and then click **Connect**. 

5. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, type the following credentials, and then click **OK**:

  - User name: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

6. If another Remote Desktop Message displays, select the **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer** checkbox, and then click **Yes**.

7. If prompted in the Remote Desktop session whether to allow your PC to be discoverable, click **No**.

8. Wait for the Server Manager window to open, then click **Local Server**, on the **Local Server** page, click the **On** link next to the **IE Enhanced Security Configuration** entry, click **Off** for Administrators, and then click **OK**.

9. In the 20533D0601-vm1 Remote Desktop window, click the **Internet Explorer** icon on the taskbar. If prompted to set up Internet Explorer, ensure that the **Use recommended security, privacy, and compatibility settings** option is selected, and then click **OK**.

10. Browse to [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and then sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

11. In the hub menu, click **All services**, and then click **Storage accounts**.

12. On the **Storage accounts** blade, click the storage account that you created in the previous exercise, and then on the blade for your storage account, click the **Files** tile.

13. On the **File service** blade, click **assets**.

14. On the **assets** blade, click **Connect** in the toolbar.

15. On the **Connect** blade, click the **Click to Copy** icon next to the code appearing in the **Connecting from Windows** section. If prompted whether to allow the webpage to access your Clipboard, click **Allow access**.

16. Click **Start**, right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, in the right-click menu, click **More** and click **Run as administrator**. 

17. In the **Administrator: Windows PowerShell ISE** window, if the script pane is not visible, click **View** and then, in the **View** menu, click **Show Script Pane**.

18. In the script pane, paste the content of Clipboard. 

19. In the command line you copied, replace **`[drive letter]`** with **`Z:`** (if it is not already replaced).

> **Note**: If your key (password) has a **/** in it, the copy to clipboard will escape this character and replace it with **\\/**.  This will cause the command to fail. Correct the escaped characters or copy the key directly from Azure.


20. Run the command by pressing the F5 key

21. Start File Explorer, click **This PC**, and verify that the command executed successfully, resulting in creation of the **Z:** drive mapping. 

22. Back in the Windows PowerShell ISE window, in the console pane, run the following command to view the contents of the invoices folder on the Z: drive, which is now mapped to the assets file share that you created in a previous task:

  ```
  Get-ChildItem -Path 'Z:\invoices'
  ```

23. Verify that invoice documents are listed.

24. Close the Windows PowerShell ISE window and Internet Explorer, and then sign out of the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0601-vm1.

> **Result**: At the end of this exercise, you should have created an Azure storage account file share named **assets** that contains a folder named **invoices** with copies of invoice documents. You should have also mapped a drive from an Azure VM to the file share.


## Exercise 3: Protecting data with Azure Backup
  
#### Task 1: Create a recovery services vault
  
1. On the MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal displayed in Microsoft Edge, in the hub menu, click **+ Create resource**, on the **New** blade, click **Storage**, and, on the **Storage** blade, click **Backup and Site Recovery (OMS)**.

2. On the **Recovery services vault** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

  - Name: **vault20533D06**

  - Subscription: the name of your Azure subscription

  - Resource group: ensure that **Create new** is selected and, in the textbox below, type **20533D0603-LabRG**

  - Location: the same Azure region that you chose when running the provisioning script at the beginning of this module

  - Pin to dashboard: ensure that the check box is cleared

3. Wait until the vault is provisioned. 


#### Task 2: Configure the vault for on-premises backup
  
1. In the hub menu, click **All services**. In the search text box, type **Recovery Services vaults** and, in the list of results, click **Recovery Services vaults**.

2. On the **Recovery Services vaults** blade, click **vault20533D06**.

3. On the **vault20533D06** blade, click **+ Backup**.

4. On the **Backup goal** blade, specify the following settings:

- Where is your workload running?: **On-premises**

- What do you want to back up?: **Files and folders**

5. Click **Prepare Infrastructure**. 


#### Task 3: Install and configure the Azure Recovery Services Agent
  
1. In the Azure portal, on the **Prepare infrastructure** blade, click the **Download Agent for Windows Server or Windows Client** link.

2. When prompted, click **Save**. Once **MARSAgentInstaller.exe** finishes downloading, click **Run**.

3. If prompted, in the **User Access Control** dialog box, click **Yes**. This will start **Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent Setup Wizard**.

4. On the **Installation Settings** page of the **Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent Setup Wizard**, click **Next**.

5. On the **Proxy Configuration** page of the **Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent Setup Wizard**, click **Next**.

6. On the **Installation** page of the **Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent Setup Wizard**, click **Install**.

7. Click **Proceed to Registration**. This will start **Register Server Wizard**.

8. Switch to Microsoft Edge displaying the Azure portal and, on the **Prepare infrastructure** blade, click **Download** after you selected "Already downloaded or using the latest Recovery Services Agent".

9. When prompted, click **Save**. This will save the vault credentials file to your Downloads folder.

10. Switch back to the **Register Server Wizard** and, on the **Vault Identification** page, click **Browse**.

11. In the **Select Vault Credentials** dialog box, browse to the **Downloads** folder, click the **.VaultCredentials** file you downloaded, and click **Open**.

12. Click **Next**.

13. On the **Encryption Setting** page of the **Register Server Wizard**, click **Generate Passphrase**.

14. On the **Encryption Setting** page of the **Register Server Wizard**, next to the **Enter a location to save the passphrase**, click **Browse**.

15. In the **Browse For Folder** dialog box, navigate to E:\\Labfiles\\Lab06\\Starter\\ and click **OK**.

16. Click **Finish** and wait for the registration to complete.

17. On the **Server Registration** page of the **Register Server Wizard**, ensure that the **Launch Microsoft Azure Recovery Services Agent** checkbox is selected and click **Close**. This will automatically open the **Microsoft Azure Backup** console.


#### Task 4: Create a backup schedule
  
1. In the **Microsoft Azure Backup** console, in the **Actions** pane, click **Schedule Backup**.

2. In the **Schedule Backup Wizard**, on the **Getting started** page, click **Next**.

3. On the **Select Items to Backup** page, click **Add Items**.

4. In the **Select Items** dialog box, expand **E:\\Labfiles\Lab06\Starter**, select the following folders, and then click **OK**:

  - asset-images

  - invoices

5. On the **Select Items to Backup** page, click **Next**.

6. On the **Specify Backup Schedule** page, ensure that the **Day** option is selected, in the first drop-down list box below the **At following times (Maximum allowed is three times a day)** box, select **4:30 AM**, and then click **Next**.

7. On the **Select Retention Policy** page, accept the defaults, and then click **Next**.

8. On the **Choose Initial Backup type** page, accept the defaults, and then click **Next**.

9. On the **Confirmation** page, click **Finish**. When the backup schedule is created, click **Close**.


#### Task 5: Run a backup
  
1. In the **Microsoft Azure Backup** console, in the Actions pane, click **Back Up Now**.

2. In the Back Up Now Wizard, on the **Confirmation** page, click **Back Up**.

3. When the backup is complete, click **Close**, and then close Microsoft Azure Backup.

4. Switch to the Azure portal, navigate back to the Recovery Services vault blade and click **Backup items**. 

5. On the **Backup items** blade, click **Azure Backup Agent**.

6. On the **Backup Items (Azure Backup Agent)** blade, verify that there is an entry referencing the **E:\\** drive of **mia-cl1.**.


#### Task 6: Stop backups and delete the Azure Recovery services vault
  
1. On the **Backup Items (Azure Backup Agent)** blade, click the entry referencing the **E:\\** drive of **mia-cl1.**.

2. On the **E:\\ on mia-cl1.** blade, click the **mia-cl1.** link (under the Computer Name section).

3. On the **mia-cl1.** blade, click **Delete**. 

4. On the **Delete** blade, in the **TYPE THE SERVER NAME** text box, type **mia-cl1.** and click **Delete**.

> **Note**: Don't forget to add the dot at the end of the server name.

5. Navigate back to the recovery services vault blade and click **Overview**. 

6. Click **Delete**. When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**.


#### Task 7: Remove the lab environment
  
1. On MIA-CL1, close all open windows without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click the **Windows PowerShell** icon, and then click **Run as Administrator**. In the User Account Control dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and then press **Enter**:

  ```
  Remove-20533DEnvironment
  ```

4. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

6. If prompted, specify the current lab number.

7. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

8. Start Microsoft Edge, browse to the Azure portal at [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

9. In the Azure portal, click **Edit dashboard**.

10. Right-click unoccupied area of the dashboard and, in the right-click menu, click **Reset to default state**. When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**.

11. Click **Done customizing**.

12. Close all open windows.

> **Result**: At the end of this exercise, you should have created an Azure Recovery Services vault in your subscription, downloaded vault credentials, and installed the Azure Recovery Services agent on the MIA-CL1 lab computer. You should have backed up the contents of the asset-images and invoices folders to the Recovery Services vault.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
