# Lab Answer Key: Module 5: Implementing Azure App Service
# Lab: Implementing web apps
  
## Exercise 1: Creating web apps
  
#### Task 1: Create a web app
  
1. Ensure that the MSL-TMG1 and 20533C-MIA-CL1 virtual machines are running, and then sign in to 20533C-MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Open Internet Explorer, browse to the Azure portal at **http://portal.azure.com**, and then sign in using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-administrator of your subscription.

3. In the top-left corner of the portal, click **New**, and then click **Web + Mobile**.

4. On the Web + Mobile blade, click **Web App**.

5. On the Web App blade, in the **App name** text box, type a unique name. If the name is unique and valid, a green check mark appears.

6. On the Web App blade, in the **Resource Group**, verify that the **Create new** option is selected and then, in the **Resource group** text box, type **20533C0501-LabRG**.

7. On the Web App blade, click **App Service plan/Location**.

8. On the App Service plan blade, click **Create New**.

9. On the New App Service Plan blade, in the **App Service plan** text box, type **WebAppStandardPlan**.

10. In the **Location** drop down list, select a location near you.

11. In **Pricing tier**, select **S1 Standard**, and then click **Select**.

12. On the New App Service Plan blade, click **OK**.

13. On the Web App blade, leave the **Application Insights** setting at its default value. 

14. On the Web App blade, click **Create**. The web-app creation process may take several minutes.



#### Task 2: Add a deployment slot
  
1. In the hub menu of the Azure portal, click **More services**, and then click **App Services**.

2. On the App Services blade, click the web app that you created in the first task. 

3. On the web app blade, in the **DEPLOYMENT** section, click **Deployment slots**.

4. On the Deployment slots blade, click **Add Slot**.

5. On the Add a slot blade, in the **Name** text box, type **Staging**. 

6. In the **Configuration Source** list, select the web app you created in the first task, and then click **OK**. Azure adds the new deployment slot to the list.

7. Right-click the Windows PowerShell icon on the taskbar and click **Run as Administrator**. When prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

8. Sign in to the Azure subscription by typing the following command in the Windows PowerShell window, and then pressing Enter:

  ```
  Login-AzureRmAccount
  ```

9. When prompted, sign in using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or Co-administrator of your subscription.

10. If you have multiple subscriptions, to select the target one, type the following commands and press Enter after each:

  ```
  Get-AzureRmSubscription
  Set-AzureRmContext -SubscriptionId "Your subscription Id"
  ```

11. Type the following Azure PowerShell cmdlet and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-AzureRmWebApp -ResourceGroupName '20533C0501-LabRG'
  ```

12. Verify that the output of the command references the web app that you created in the previous task.

13. Type the following Azure PowerShell cmdlet and then press Enter. Replace _'Name of your web app'_ with the name of the web app you chose in the previous task: 

  ```
  Get-AzureRMWebAppSlot -ResourceGroupName '20533C0501-LabRG' -Name 'Name of your web app'
  ```

14. Verify that the web app staging slot you created in this task is listed in the output

15. Keep the Windows PowerShell window open.



#### Task 3: Configure deployment credentials
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the web app that you created in the first task, on the web app blade, in the **DEPLOYMENT** section click **Deployment credentials**.

2. On the deployment credentials blade, in the **FTP/Deployment user name** text box, type a unique name.

3. In the **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**.

4. In the **Confirm password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Save**.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created a new web app in the Azure portal, and configured the new web app with deployment slots and deployment credentials.


## Exercise 2: Deploying a web app
  
#### Task 1: Obtain a publishing profile
  
1. In the Azure portal, on the blade of the web app that you created in the exercise 1, click **Overview** and then click **Get publish profile**. You might need to first click **... More** if the **Get publish profile** option does not appear in the toolbar at the top of the blade.

2. When prompted whether to open or save the **.PublishSettings** file, click **Save**. Internet Explorer will save the publishing profile in the **Downloads** folder on your lab computer.

3. On the taskbar, click **Visual Studio 2015**.

4. On the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.

5. Browse to the folder D:\\LabFiles\\Lab05\\Starter\\AdatumWebsite, click **AdatumWebsite.sln**, and then click **Open**. If prompted, in the **Security Warning for AdatumWebsite** dialog box, click **OK**.

6. On the **Debug** menu, click **Start Debugging**. This will open a new Microsoft Edge window.

7. In the Microsoft Edge window, under **A. Datum Corporation**, click **Learn More**.

8. In the Microsoft Edge window, click **Contact**.

9. Close the Microsoft Edge window.



#### Task 2: Deploy a web app
  
1. In Visual Studio, click **Debug** and, in the **Debug** menu, click **Stop Debugging**.

2. In the Solution Explorer, right-click the **AdatumWebsite** project, and then click **Publish**.

3. In the Publish Web Wizard, on the **Profile** page, click **Import**.

4. In the **Import Publish Settings** dialog box, click **Browse**.

5. Browse to the **Downloads** folder.

6. Select the **.PublishSettings** file that you downloaded in Task 1 of this exercise, and then click **Open**.

7. In the **Import Publish Settings** dialog box, click **OK**.

8. On the **Connection** page, click **Validate Connection**. At this point, Visual Studio will connect to the Azure web app. If the connection is valid, a green tick mark appears.

9. Click **Next**.

10. On the **Settings** page, ensure that **Release** appears in the **Configuration** drop-down list.

11. Click **Next**.

12. On the **Preview** page, click **Start Preview**.

13. Examine the files that will be published.

14. Click **Publish**.
> **Note:** The publish operation may take approximately two to three minutes. When the operation is complete, Microsoft Edge opens and displays the new web app hosted in Azure.

15. Verify that A. Datum's web app is open in Microsoft Edge, and then verify the web app's current address.

16. Close Microsoft Edge.

17. Leave Visual Studio open.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have deployed a web app hosted in Azure. 


## Exercise 3: Managing web apps
  
#### Task 1: Deploy a web app for staging
  
1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, navigate to the blade of the web app you created in Exercise 1, Task 1.

2. On the web app blade, in the **DEPLOYMENT** section, click **Deployment slots**.

3. On the Deployment slots blade, click the staging slot **_yourwebapp_-staging** that was created in Exercise 1, Task 2.

4. On the Staging blade, click **Get publish profile**. You might need to first click **... More** if the **Get publish profile** option does not appear in the toolbar at the top of the blade.

5. In the dialog box, click **Save**.

6. Switch to **Visual Studio**.

7. On the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**. If prompted, in the **Security Warning for AdatumWebsite** dialog box, click **OK**.

8. Browse to the folder D:\\LabFiles\\Lab05\\Starter\\NewAdatumWebsite.

9. Click **AdatumWebsite.sln**, and then click **Open**.

10. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **AdatumWebsite** project, and then click **Publish**.

11. In the Publish Web Wizard, on the **Profile** page, click **Import**.

12. In the **Import Publish Settings** dialog box, click **Browse**.

13. In the **Downloads** folder, select the **_YourWebapp_(Staging).PublishSettings** file, and then click **Open**.

14. In the **Import Publish Settings** dialog box, click **OK**.

15. On the **Connection** page, click **Validate Connection**. If the connection details are correct, a green tick mark appears.

16. Click **Next**.

17. In the **Configuration** drop-down list, ensure that **Release** is selected, and then click **Next**.

18. On the **Preview** page, click **Start Preview**.

19. Examine the files that will be published, and then click **Publish**.

20. When the publish operation is complete, Microsoft Edge opens and displays the new web app in the staging slot. 

21. Close Microsoft Edge.

22. Leave Visual Studio open.



#### Task 2: Swap deployment slots
  
1. In the Azure portal, navigate to the web app blade and, in the **Essentials** section, click the **URL** link for your web app. This will open another tab in the Internet Exploer window. Note the color scheme.

2. Close the tab that displays the A. Datum web app.

3. In the Azure portal, on the web app blade, click **Swap**

4. On the Swap blade, in the **Swap type** drop-down list, verify that **Swap** is selected.

5. In the **Source** drop-down list, ensure that **Staging** is selected.

6. In the **Destination** drop-down list, ensure that **production** is selected, and then click **OK**.

7. Wait until swap operation completes.

8. On the web app blade, in the **Essentials** section, click the URL link for your web app. Notice that the color scheme has changed. 

9. Close the tab that displays the A. Datum's web app.



#### Task 3: Roll back a deployment
  
1. In the Azure portal, on the _yourwebapp_ blade in the command bar at the top, click **Swap**.

2. On the Swap blade, in the **Swap type** drop-down list, verify that **Swap** is selected.

3. In the **Source** drop-down list, select **Staging**.

4. In the **Destination** drop-down list, select **production**, and then click **OK** button.

5. Wait until Swap operation completes.

6. On the web app blade, in **Essentials** section, click the URL link for your web app. Notice that the color scheme reverted to the original one.

7. Close the A. Datum tab in Internet Explorer. 


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have an updated web app in the staging slot and have tested the slot swap functionality.


## Exercise 4: Implementing Traffic Manager
  
#### Task 1: Deploy a web app to another region
  
1. Switch to the Windows PowerShell window.

2. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-AzureRmWebApp -ResourceGroupName '20533C0501-LabRG'
  ```

Note the name of your original web app and its location.

3. Choose an Azure region that is different from the location of the original web app, preferably on another continent. This will become the _'SecondLocation'_

4. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command to create a new resource group, and then press Enter (replace _'SecondLocation'_ with the name of the Azure region you chose:

  ```
  $rg2 = New-AzureRMResourceGroup -Name '20533C0502-LabRG' -Location 'SecondLocation'
  ```

5. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command to create a new App Service Plan, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $appSvcPlan2 = New-AzureRMAppServicePlan -Location $rg2.Location -Tier Standard -Name 'WebAppStandardPlan2' -ResourceGroupName $rg2.ResourceGroupName
  ```

6. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command (where the _'webappname2'_ is a unique name that you will assign to a new web app you will create in the _'SecondLocation'_ in the next step), and then press Enter:
  ```
  Test-AzureRmDnsAvailability -DomainNameLabel 'webapp' -Location $rg2.Location
  ```
Verify that the command returns **True**. If not, keep re-running the same command but with different values of the **-DomainNameLabel** parameter.

7. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command to create a new web app, and then press Enter (the _'webappname2'_ matches the name you identified in the previous step) :

  ```
  New-AzureRMWebApp -ResourceGroupName $rg2.ResourceGroupName -Name 'webappname2' -Location $rg2.Location -AppServicePlan $appSvcPlan2.Name
  ```

8. Switch to the Azure portal in the Internet Explorer window.

9. On the left side of the Azure portal, click **More services**, and then click **App Services**.

10. On the App Services blade, click the entry representing the second web app you provisioned in this task.

11. On the web app blade, click **Get publish profile**. You might need to first click **... More** if the **Get publish profile** option does not appear in the toolbar at the top of the blade.

12. When prompted, click **Save**.

13. Switch to Visual Studio.

14. In the Visual Studio, on the **File** menu, click **Open**, and then click **Project/Solution**.

15. Browse to the folder D:\\LabFiles\\Lab05\\Starter\\AdatumWebsite.

16. Click **AdatumWebsite.sln**, and then click **Open**.

17. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **AdatumWebsite** project, and then click **Publish**.

18. In the Publish Web Wizard, on the left click **Profile**, and then click **Import**.

19. In the **Import Publish Settings** dialog box, click **Browse**.

20. In the **Downloads** folder, select the **_WebAppName_2.PublishSettings_** file, and then click **Open**.

21. In the **Import Publish Settings** dialog box, click **OK**.

22. On the **Connection** page, click **Validate Connection**. If the connection details are correct, a green tick mark appears.

23. Click **Next**.

24. In the **Configuration** drop-down list, ensure that **Release** is selected, and then click **Next**.

25. On the **Preview** page, click **Start Preview**.

26. Examine the files that will be published, and then click **Publish**.

27. When the publish operation completes, Microsoft Edge opens and displays the new web app.

28. Close Microsoft Edge.

29. Close Visual Studio.



#### Task 2: Create a Traffic Manager profile
  
1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, click **New**. 

2. In the **Search the marketplace** text box, type **Traffic Manager profile** and, in the list of results, click **Traffic Manager profile**. 

3. On the **Traffic Manager profile** blade, click **Create**.

4. On the **Create Traffic Manager profile** blade, in the **Name** text box, type a unique name. This will be appended with the suffix **trafficmanager.net**. If the name is unique and valid, a green checkmark appears.

5. In the **Routing Method** drop down list, select **Performance**.

6. In the **Subscription** drop down list, select the Azure subscription where you provisioned the web apps in this lab.

7. In the **Resource Group** section, ensure that **Create new** is selected and, in the text box below, type **20533C0503-LabRG**.

9. In the **Resource group location** drop-down list box, select the Azure region that is closest to your location, and then click **Create**. Wait until the Traffic Manager profile is created.



#### Task 3: Add endpoints, and configure Traffic Manager
  
1. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **More services**, and then select **Traffic Manager Profiles**.

2. On the Traffic Manager profiles blade, click the profile you created in the previous step. 

3. On the Traffic Manager profile blade, click **Endpoints**.

4. Click **Add**.

5. On the Add endpoint blade, ensure that **Azure endpoint** is selected in the **Type** drop down list.

6. In the **Name** text box, type the name of your web app, which you created in Exercise 1.

7. In the **Target resource type** drop-down list, click **App Service**.

8. Click **Choose an app service**.

9. On the Resource blade, click the web app that you created in Exercise 1.

10. Click **OK** to add the endpoint.

11. Repeat steps 4 through 10 to add the second endpoint for the web app that you created in Exercise 4. Use the name of the second web app as the name of the endpoint.

12. On the web app blade, click **Configuration**.

13. On the Traffic Manager configuration blade, in the **DNS time to live (TTL)** text box, replace the default value by typing **30** and press **Enter**.

14. On the command bar at the top, click **Save**.



#### Task 4: Test Traffic Manager
  
1. In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal, on the traffic Manager profile blade, click **Overview** and then, click the link under the **DNS name** section.

2. Internet Explorer displays the Adatum web app. 

3. On MIA-CL1, right-click **Start** and, in the right-click menu, click **Commmand Prompt (Admin)**. When prompted, in the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. At the Command Prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  nslookup dnsname
  ```

where _dnsname_ is the DNS name of the Traffic Manager profile.

5. Note the DNS records that the command returns.

6. In the Internet Explorer window, switch to the tab that displays the Azure portal.

7. On the Traffic Manager profile blade, click **Endpoints**

8. In the list of endpoints, click the name of the web app, which name was included in the DNS records you noted in step 5.

9. On the edpoint blade, click **Edit.** Under **Status**, click **Disabled**, and then click **Save**.

10. Switch to the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  nslookup dnsname
  ```

where _dnsname_ is the DNS name that you used in step 4.

11. Note that the record that the command returns is different from the one returned in step 4.
> **Note:** You might have to wait in order for the endpoint state change to take effect. Wait about 1 minute and re-run the **nslookup** command.


#### Task 5: Reset the Azure environment
  
1. Close all open applications without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as administrator**. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Reset-Azure
  ```

4. When prompted (twice), sign in using the Microsoft account that is either the Service Administrator or a Co-administrator of your subscription.

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

6. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

> **Note:** This script may remove Azure services in your subscription. Therefore, we recommend that you use an Azure trial pass that was provisioned specifically for this course, and not your own Azure account.
> The script will take approximately two or three minutes to reset your Azure environment, so that you are ready for the next lab. The script removes all storage, virtual machines, virtual networks, cloud services, and resource groups.
> **Important:** The script may not have exclusive access to a storage account so that it can delete it. If this occurs, you will see an error. If you find objects remaining after the reset script is complete, you can rerun the **Reset-Azure** script, or use the Azure portal to delete all objects in your Azure subscription manually, with the exception of the default directory. Do not delete it.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have implemented two Azure web apps and a Traffic Manager profile configured to distribute requests between them.

©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
