# Lab Answer Key:  Module 7: Implementing containers in Azure
# Lab A: Implementing containers on Azure VMs
  
## Exercise 1: Implementing containers on Azure VMs

#### Task 1: Install Docker Toolbox for Windows

1. Ensure that you are signed in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and that the **Add-20533DEnvironment** script successfully completed. The script creates an Azure VM of the size that supports nested virtualization. You will use it to install Docker Toolbox for Windows.

> **Note**: For the region selection you can choose "southeastasia" and for the VM size "Standard_D2s_v3". This area and this size supports nested virtualization.

2. Start Microsoft Edge and browse to [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com). When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 

3. In the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **All services** and, in the service menu, click **Virtual machines**.

4. On the Virtual machines blade, click the ellipsis (**...**) next to the **20533D0701-vm0** entry and, in the drop-down menu, click **Connect**.

5. When prompted, click **Save** and then click **Open**.

6. If a Remote Desktop Connection warning message displays, select **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer**, and then click **Connect**. 

7. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, type the following credentials, click the **Remember me** checkbox, and then click **OK**:

  - User name: **Student**

  - Password: **Pa55w.rd1234**

8. If another Remote Desktop Message displays, select the **Don't ask me again for connections to this computer** checkbox, and then click **Yes**.

9. If prompted in the Remote Desktop session whether to allow your PC to be discoverable, click **No**.

10. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in **Server Manager**, click **Local Server**.

11. Click the **On** link next to the **IE Enhanced Security Configuration** label.

12. In the Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration dialog box, in the **Administrators** and the **Users** section, click **Off** and click **OK**.

13. Click the **Internet Explorer** shortcut on the taskbar.

14. If prompted, ensure that **Use recommended security, privacy, and compatibility settings** is selected and then click **OK**.

15. In Internet Explorer, navigate to [**https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/#download-docker-for-windows**](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/#download-docker-for-windows)

16. On the **Install Docker for Windows** page, click **Get Docker for Windows (Stable)**.

17. When prompted whether to run or save **Docker for Windows Installer.exe**, click **Run**.

18. Once the installation completed, click **Close and log out**.


#### Task 2: Use Docker Machine to create hosts in Azure Deploy Docker Toolbox for Windows

1. On MIA-CL1, in the Azure portal, on the Virtual machines blade, click the ellipsis (**...**) next to the **20533D0701-vm0** entry and, in the drop-down menu, click **Connect**.

2. When prompted, click **Save** and then click **Open**.

3. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, sign in as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd1234**

4. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, if prompted in Docker for Windows dialog box whether to enable Hyper-V, click **Cancel**.

5. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, start Internet Explorer and browse to [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com). When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription. 

6. Click the **Cloud Shell** icon in the toolbar.

7. If prompted, in the **Welcome to Azure Cloud Shell** pane, click **Bash (Linux)**.

8. If you are presented with the **You have no storage mounted** message, ensure that the name of your subscription appears in the **Subscription** drop down list, and click **Create storage**.

9. In the **Cloud shell** pane, type the following and press Enter:

  ```
  az account show --query "id" -o tsv
  ```

10. This should display the Id of your Azure subscription. Select the output of the command, right-click the selection, and, in the right-click menu, click **Copy**.

11. In the **Cloud shell** pane, type the following, replacing **`Azure-region`** with the name of the Azure region you selected when running **Add-20533DEnvironment** at the beginning of this module, and press Enter:

  ```
  az vm image list-skus --location "Azure-region" --publisher Canonical --offer UbuntuServer --output table
  ```

12. Identify the values appearing in the **Sku** column in the output. Verify that **16.04.0-LTS** is available. If that is not the case, replace **16.04.0-LTS** with one of avaialble SKUs in step 16 below.

13. Close the **Cloud Shell** pane.

14. Right-click **Start** and click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.

15. From the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  cd %USERPROFILE%
  ```
  
16. From the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following on one line, replacing **`Azure-subscription-Id`** with the value of your Azure subscription ID you copied earlier in this task, and replacing the **`Azure-region`** with the name of the Azure region you selected when running **Add-20533DEnvironment** at the beginning of this module, and then press Enter (make sure to use the lower case characters when specifying the virtual machine name and verify that the specified virtual machine size is available in the target Azure region): 

  ```
  docker-machine create --driver azure --azure-ssh-user student --azure-subscription-id "Azure-subscrption-id" --azure-open-port 80 --azure-image "Canonical:UbuntuServer:16.04.0-LTS:latest" --azure-location "Azure-region" --azure-resource-group "20533D0702-LabRG" --azure-availability-set "20533D0702-avset" --azure-static-public-ip --azure-size "Standard_A1_v2" "20533d0702-vm0"
  ```
  
17. The **Administrator: Command Prompt** window will display the message asking you to use a web browser to open the page https://aka.ms/devicelogin and enter the code provided at the end of the message. Start Intrenet Explorer and browse to [**https://aka.ms/devicelogin**](https://aka.ms/devicelogin). 

18. On the **Device Login** page, type the code and click **Continue**.

19. On the Docker Machine for Azure page, when prompted to confirm that Docker Machine for Azure is the application that you try to sign in to, click **Continue**.

20. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of the Azure subscription which Id you provided when running **docker-machine**. 

21. Close the Internet Explorer window.

22. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, monitor the progress of provisioning the Azure VM.

23. Wait for the Azure VM to be provisioned. Next, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker-machine ls
  ```

24. Verify that the output includes the newly created Azure VM. 

25. To obtain the IP address of the target Docker Azure VM, note the IP address in the **URL** column of the output of the **`docker-machine ls`** command. Alternatively, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker-machine ip 20533D0702-vm0
  ```

26. To verify connectivity to the target Docker Azure VM, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following on one line, replacing **`IP-address`** with the IP address you identified in the previous step and then press Enter: 

  ```
docker -D -H tcp://IP-address:2376 --tlsverify --tlscacert=C:\Users\Student\.docker\machine\certs\ca.pem --tlscert=C:\Users\Student\.docker\machine\certs\cert.pem --tlskey=C:\Users\Student\.docker\machine\certs\key.pem ps
  ```

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully installed Docker Toolbox for Windows and created a Docker host in an Azure VM.


## Exercise 2: Deploying containers to Azure VMs

#### Task 1: Configure docker-machine environment.

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker-machine env 20533d0702-vm0
  ```

2. Review the output returned by the docker-machine env command. Next, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter (it will not produce any output): 

  ```
  @FOR /f "tokens=*" %i IN ('docker-machine env 20533d0702-vm0') DO @%i
  ```

3. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, press Enter, and verify that the output contains Docker environment variables, including **`DOCKER_CERT_PATH`**, **`DOCKER_HOST`**, **`DOCKER_MACHINE_NAME`**, and **`DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY`**:

  ```
  SET DOCKER
  ```

#### Task 2: Run a container in a Docker host running on an Azure VM

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker run -d -p 80:80 --restart=always nginx
  ```

2. Monitor the progress of the container deployment. To verify the successful outcome, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker ps
  ```

3. To obtain the IP address of the target Docker VM hosting the containerized application, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker-machine ip 20533D0702-vm0
  ```

4. Start Internet Explorer and browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the **Welcome to nginx!** page

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully run a sample containerized web server nginx on the Docker host Azure VM.


## Exercise 3: Deploying multi-container applications with Docker Compose to Azure VMs

#### Task 1: Create a compose file

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, to verify that Docker Compose is installed on the target Docker Azure VM, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker-compose --version
  ```

2. In the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  notepad docker-compose.yml
  ```

3. When prompted whether to create a new file, click **Yes**. 

4. In Notepad, type the following text, click **File** and click **Save** (you can find the file in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab07\\Solution** folder):

```
  version: "3"
  services:
    wordpress:
      image: wordpress
      links:
        - db:mysql
      ports:
        - 8080:80
    db:
       image: mariadb
       environment:
         MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: Pa55w.rd
```

> **Note**: Be careful when copying this part. Copy even the blank space to the left of the text (it should be 2 spaces).

#### Task 2: Deploy the containers with docker-compose to an Azure VM

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker-compose up -d
  ```

2. Monitor the progress of the container deployment. To verify the successful outcome, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker ps
  ```

#### Task 3: Connect to a multi-container application running on an Azure VM

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the Azure portal, in the hub menu, click **Resource groups**.

2. On the **Resource groups** blade, click **20533D0702-LabRG**.

3. On the **20533D0702-LabRG** blade, click **20533D0702-vm0-firewall**.

4. On the **20533D0702-vm0-firewall** blade, click **Inbound security rules**.

5. Click **+ Add**.

6. On the **Add inbound security rule** blade, ensure that **Basic** appears in the toolbar, specify the following settings and click **OK**:

  - Source: **Any**

  - Source port ranges: **\***

  - Destination: **Any**

  - Destination port ranges: **8080**

  - Protocol: **TCP**

  - Action: **Allow**

  - Priority: **1100**

  - Name: **Port8080-TcpAllowAny**

7. Wait for the operation to complete. Next, start Internet Explorer and browse to the port 8080 on the IP address you obtained in the Exercise 2, task 2 (the same IP address as nginx server). Verify that Internet Explorer displays the **Wordpress Installation** page

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully implemented a multi-container application by using Docker Compose.


## Exercise 4: Implementing Azure Container Registry
  
#### Task 1: Create an Azure Container Registry

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the Azure portal in the Internet Explorer window, click **+ Create resource**.

2. On the **New** blade, click **Containers**, and then click **Azure Container Registry**. 

3. On the **Create container registry** blade, specify the following settings and click **Create**:

  - Registry name: a unique name consisting of between 5 and 50 alphanumeric characters

  - Subscription: the name of the Azure subscription you are using in this lab

  - Resource group: click **Create new** and, in the text box below, type **20533D0703-LabRG**

  - Location : **East US**

  - Admin user: **Enable** (this allows you to use the registry name as username and admin user access key as password to docker login to the registry)

  - SKU : **Basic**

4. Wait for the operation to complete.


#### Task 2: Identify Azure Container Registry authentication settings.

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the Azure portal in the Internet Explorer window, click **All services**, and in the service menu, click **Container registries**.

2. On the **Container registries** blade, click the Azure container registry you created in the previous task.

3. On the container registry blade, click **Access keys**.

4. Click the **Click to copy** icon next to the **password** entry. If prompted whether to allow the webpage to acces your Clipboard, click **Allow access**.

5. Note the values of the **Username** and the **Login server** entries. The username should match the registry name and the login server name should consist of the registry name followed by the **.azurecr.io** suffix.


#### Task 3: Push an image to Azure Container Registry.

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, to log in to the Azure Container registry you created in the first task, type the following, replacing the **`user-name`**, **`password`**, and **`login-server`** entries with the values you identified in the previous task, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker login --username user-name --password password login-server
  ```
  
2. Ensure that you receive the **Login succeeded** message. Next to pull an existing image from Docker Hub, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker pull microsoft/aci-helloworld
  ```

3. Wait for the image to be downloaded to the Docker Azure VM. Next, to tag the image with the Azure Container registry name, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, replacing the **`login-server`** entry with the value you identified in the previous task, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker tag microsoft/aci-helloworld login-server/aci-helloworld:v1
  ```

4. To push the tagged image to the Azure Container registry, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, replacing the **`login-server`** entry with the value you identified in the previous task, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker push login-server/aci-helloworld:v1
  ```

5. Wait for the image to be pushed to the registry. Next, to view the images stored in the Azure Container registry name, in the Azure portal, in the Internet Explorer window, on the container registry blade, click **Repositories** and note that the list includes the **aci-helloworld** repository.


#### Task 4: Download and deploy images from the Azure Container Registry

1. In the Remote Desktop session to 20533D0701-vm0, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, to pull an image from the Azure Container registry, type the following, replacing the **`login-server`** entry with the values you identified earlier in this exercise, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker pull login-server/aci-helloworld:v1
  ```

2. Note that, in this case, the image does not need to be downloaded, since it is already present on the target Docker Azure VM. 

3. Next, to deploy the image downloaded from the Azure Container registry, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker run -d --restart=always -p 8081:80 login-server/aci-helloworld:v1
  ```

4. To verify that the image has been successfully deployed, in the **Administrator: Command Prompt** window, type the following, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  docker ps
  ```

5. Note that the output includes the **`login-server/aci-helloworld:v1`** image. 

6. Close the Remote Desktop Session to 20533D0701-vm0.


#### Task 5: Remove the lab environment
  
1. On MIA-CL1, close all open windows without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click the **Windows PowerShell** icon, and then click **Run as Administrator**. In the User Account Control dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and then press **Enter**:

  ```
  Remove-20533DEnvironment
  ```

4. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

6. If prompted, specify the current lab number.

7. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

8. Start Microsoft Edge, browse to the Azure portal at [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

9. In the Azure portal, click **Edit dashboard**.

10. Right-click unoccupied area of the dashboard and, in the right-click menu, click **Reset to default state**. When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**.

11. Click **Done customizing**.

12. Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully tested image deployment by using Azure Container Registry.


# Lab B: Implementing Azure Container Service (ACS)
  
## Exercise 1: Creating an ACS Kubernetes cluster

#### Task 1: Create an ACS Kubernetes cluster

1. Ensure that you are signed in to MIA-CL1 as **Student** with the password **Pa55w.rd** and that the **Remove-20533DEnvironment** script successfully completed. In the Azure portal, in the Microsoft Edge window, click the **Cloud shell** icon. 

2. If you are presented with the **Welcome to Azure Cloud Shell** pane, click **Bash (Linux)**. 

3. If you are presented with the **You have no storage mounted** message, ensure that the name of your subscription appears in the **Subscription** drop down list, and click **Create storage**.

4. At the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command, replacing **`Azure-region`** with the name of the Azure region where you want to deploy the ACS Kubernetes cluster and then press Enter:

  ```
  az group create --name 20533D0704-LabRG --location "Azure-region"
  ```

5. At the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  az acs create --orchestrator-type kubernetes --resource-group 20533D0704-LabRG --name 20533D0704-k8scluster --generate-ssh-keys
  ```

6. Wait for the deployment to complete.
  

#### Task 2: Connect to the ACS Kubernetes cluster.

1. To download and configure the credentials to access the ACS Kubernetes cluster, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  az acs kubernetes get-credentials --resource-group 20533D0704-LabRG --name 20533D0704-k8scluster 
  ```

2. To verify connectivity to the ACS Kubernetes cluster, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl get nodes
  ```

3. Review the output and verify that the agent nodes are reporting the **Ready** status. Rerun the command until the correct status is shown.

  
> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully deployed a new ACS cluster with the orchestrator of your choice. 


## Exercise 2: Managing an ACS cluster

#### Task 1: Deploy a containerized application to the ACS Kubernetes cluster 

1. In the Azure portal, in the Microsoft Edge window, in the Cloud shell pane, in order to deploy the **nginx** container from the Docker Hub, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl run nginx-20533d0704 --image=nginx --replicas=1 --port=80
  ```

2. To verify that a Kubernetes pod has been created, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl get pods
  ```

3. To identify the state of the deployment, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl get deployment
  ```

4. To make the pod available from Internet, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl expose deployment nginx-20533d0704 --port=80 --type=LoadBalancer
  ```

5. To identify whether the public IP address has been provisioned, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl get services
  ```

6. Repeat step 5 until the value in the **EXTERNAL-IP** column for nginx-20533d0704 changes from **<<pending>pending>** to a public IP address. Note the public IP address in the **EXTERNAL-IP** column for nginx-20533d0704. 

7. Start Microsoft Edge and browse to the IP address you obtained in the previous step. Verify that Internet Explorer displays the **Welcome to nginx!** 


#### Task 2: Manage deployment of a containerized application on the ACS Kubernetes cluster 

1. To scale the deployment, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl scale --replicas=2 deployment/nginx-20533d0704 
  ```

2. To verify the outcome of scaling the deployment, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl get pods
  ```

3. In the output of the command you ran in the previous step, verify that the number of pods increased to 2.


4. To delete the deployment, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl delete deployment nginx-20533d0704 
  ```

5. To verify that the command you ran in the previous step completed successfully, at the bash prompt, in the Cloud shell pane, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  kubectl get deployment
  ```

#### Task 3: Remove the lab environment
  
1. On MIA-CL1, close all open windows without saving any files.

2. On the taskbar, right-click the **Windows PowerShell** icon, and then click **Run as Administrator**. In the User Account Control dialog box, click **Yes**.

3. Type the following command, and then press **Enter**:

  ```
  Remove-20533DEnvironment
  ```

4. When prompted, sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

5. If you have multiple Azure subscriptions, select the one you want the script to target.

6. If prompted, specify the current lab number.

7. When prompted for confirmation, type **y**.

8. Start Microsoft Edge, browse to the Azure portal at [**https://portal.azure.com**](https://portal.azure.com), and sign in by using the Microsoft account that is the Service Administrator of your Azure subscription.

9. In the Azure portal, click **Edit dashboard**.

10. Right-click unoccupied area of the dashboard and, in the right-click menu, click **Reset to default state**. When prompted to confirm, click **Yes**.

11. Click **Done customizing**.

12. Close all open windows.

> **Result**: After you complete this exercise, you should have successfully deployed a containerized workload to the new ACS cluster and validated its availability.


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
